evp	abandon	verb	1	B2	to leave someone or something somewhere, sometimes not returning to get them	They were forced to abandon the car.	All at once, they abandoned their sacks of stolen property and ran for their lives!
evp	abandon	verb	2	C1	to stop doing something before it is finished, or to stop following a plan, idea, etc.	The weather was so bad, we abandoned our plans for a picnic.	How would you feel if you established a long-time plan for your career and then you had to abandon it?
evp	abandoned	adjective	1	B2	left empty or not working	an abandoned house/building/mine	Arriving at an altitude of 2000m, people can visit the abandoned salt-mines.
evp	abandoned	adjective	2	B2	having been left somewhere, intentionally	An abandoned baby was left at the hospital.	Please, just have a look at your wife Margaret and her eyes will tell you that she is this abandoned princess of your childhood fairy-tale.
evp	ability	noun	1	B1	the physical or mental skill or qualities that you need to do something	She had the ability to explain things clearly.	The protagonist had been bitten by a strange spider and some days later, he noticed he had some strange powers, such as the ability to create spider[s'] webs.
evp	abnormal	adjective	1	C1	different from what is normal or usual, in a way which is strange or dangerous	abnormal behavior/conditions	You are all obliged to inform other workers about the danger if you should notice anything that is abnormal.
evp	aboard	adverb	1	C1	on or onto a plane, ship, bus, or train	Once everyone was aboard the plane, the doors were closed and the crew prepared for takeoff.	While the food aboard your aircraft was regarded as excellent in 2004, its quality has dropped significantly this year.
evp	abolish	verb	1	B2	to officially end something, especially a law or system	I think bullfighting should be abolished.	Therefore, I suggest you should not change or abolish any event for any reason.
evp	abortion	noun	1	C1	a medical method to end a pregnancy	to have an abortion	Some of these problems are serious and should be eliminated, such as abortion and domestic violence.
evp	about	adverb	1	A1	a little more or less than the stated number or amount	It happened about two months ago.	It's not far from my home, about 20 minut[es'] walk, or 5 minutes by bus.
evp	about	adjective	1	B2	to be going to do something very soon	I was about to leave when Mark arrived.	I'm in a hurry, my class is about to begin.
evp	above	adverb	1	A1	in or to a higher position than something else	There's a mirror above the sink.	I think I have put it above the bookshelf.
evp	above	adverb	2	A2	more than an amount or level	It says on the box it's for children age three and above.	The weather is too hot in Beijing. Every day it is above 30 degrees.
evp	above	adverb	3	B1	most importantly	Above all, I'd like to thank my family.	She is a very nice person and above all, she is really cheerful.
evp	above	adverb	4	C2	too good or important for something	No one is above suspicion in this matter.	
evp	above	adverb	1	B1	higher on the page	the above diagram	I can be contacted at the above address and I would be free to attend an interview at any time from Monday to Saturday.
evp	abroad	adverb	1	B1	in or to a foreign country	He's gone abroad on business.	I have never been abroad.
evp	abrupt	adjective	1	C2	sudden and not expected	Our conversation came to an abrupt end/halt.	Their income came from the revenues obtained by selling milk, fruit, jelly and other perishable goods, but they had to pay John, or their happy lifestyle would come to an abrupt end.
evp	abrupt	adjective	2	C2	dealing with people in a quick, direct way that is unfriendly or rude	She can be rather abrupt.	I was poorly received and the general tone of the person assisting me was rude and abrupt.
evp	abruptly	adverb	1	C2	suddenly and quickly	They abruptly left the party.	When she became an adolescent, her perspective changed abruptly.
evp	absence	noun	1	B2	when someone is not where they are usually expected to be	A new manager was appointed during/in her absence.	Anyway, during your absence, the T.V. repair man never appeared and I had to insist by phone on your behalf.
evp	absence	noun	2	B2	when something does not exist	He drew attention to the absence of concrete evidence against the defendant.	The biggest difference the absence of TV made in my life was that I actually started living.
evp	absent	adjective	1	B1	not in the place where you are expected to be, especially at school or work	John has been absent from school/work for three days now.	I'm going to be absent because my grandmother is ill and I have to take care of her.
evp	absolute	adjective	1	B2	complete and definite	absolute power/control	I have no experience in surfing - I am an absolute beginner with high motivation.
evp	absolutely	adverb	1	B1	completely	The food was absolutely delicious.	I've heard the film is absolutely fantastic.
evp	absolutely	adverb	2	B2	used to strongly agree with someone	"Do you think it helped his career?" "Absolutely."	So don't you think it was unfair and little rude to say that in your newspaper? Absolutely.
evp	absolutely	adverb	3	C2	used to strongly disagree with someone or to agree with something negative	"Are you suggesting that we should just ignore the problem?" "No, absolutely not."	Does it mean the parents will allow them to eat anything they please? Absolutely not. You have to give the children some options, instead of imposing things on them.
evp	absorb	verb	1	B2	to take something in, especially gradually	Plants absorb carbon dioxide.	Everything is getting intermingled and absorbed into the system, making life terribly efficient, quick and easy.
evp	absorb	verb	2	B2	to give all your attention to something that you are doing	Simon was so absorbed in his computer game that he didn't notice me come in.	We hadn't noticed them at first because we were absorbed in listening to the birds singing.
evp	absorb	verb	3	C1	to understand and remember facts that you read or hear	It's hard to absorb so much information.	You will have only three school subjects and that'[ll] make it easier to absorb the new knowledge.
evp	abstract	adjective	1	B2	relating to ideas and not real things	abstract ideas	Reading improves your ability to imagine and your abstract thinking skills.
evp	abstract	adjective	2	B2	Abstract art involves shapes and colors and not images of real things or people.	abstract paintings/sculpture	What kind of material will you use for this painting? Will it be a realistic picture or an abstract one?
evp	absurd	adjective	1	B2	very silly	What an absurd explanation!	It is not a big city and I think it's absurd that people that live and work in it use the car to go to school or to work.
evp	abuse	noun	1	B2	bad or cruel treatment of people or animals	sexual/psychological/mental abuse	The one side opposes this treatment as an abuse of living creatures while the other side denies any suffering and points at the values of zoos for people.
evp	abuse	noun	2	B2	the use of a substance in an unsuitable and harmful way or for the wrong purpose	Drug and alcohol abuse contributed to his early death.	Get information about the effect] of drug abuse and make your generation a better one.
evp	abuse	noun	3	C1	an action or activity that is morally wrong or not allowed	The mayor was suspected of corruption and other abuses.	It is a vast resource of information, but the abuse of it may have detrimental consequences.
evp	abuse	noun	4	C2	rude and offensive words said to another person	He found it difficult to tolerate the verbal abuse.	I went all the way back cycling on the wrong side of the road, and anyone who said something about it could expect a stream of abuse.
evp	abusive	adjective	1	C2	saying rude and offensive words to someone	an abusive phone call	This is partly true, because even a slightly abusive expression might result in discord or rupture between seemingly close friends.
evp	academic	adjective	1	B2	relating to schools, colleges, and universities, or to subjects that involve thinking and studying and not technical or practical skills	academic subjects/programs/institutions	As a member of our academic community, I'm very glad to hear that our college will have a surplus in its annual budget.
evp	accelerate	verb	1	C1	to start to happen more quickly, or to make something start to happen more quickly	Inflation is likely to accelerate this year.	Fashion has always been changing but I think this process accelerated after the Second World War.
evp	accelerate	verb	2	C2	to move or cause yourself or a vehicle to move faster	The car in front accelerated and left us behind.	When I ride my bike and start accelerating, I feel that I move with the speed of the wind.
evp	accent	noun	1	B1	the way in which people in a particular area, country or social group pronounce words	a Boston/Southern accent	Our teacher is a middle-aged lady with a kind smile and a British accent.
evp	accent	noun	2	B2	a mark written or printed over a letter to show you how to pronounce it	There's an acute accent on the "e" of "café."	
evp	accept	verb	1	B1	to agree to take something that is offered to you	to accept an apology/invitation/offer	I hope that you accept my apology.
evp	accept	verb	2	B2	to admit that something is true, often something unpleasant	He refuses to accept that he's made a mistake.	David told her that the reason for his failure was her, because she used to press him a lot and she couldn't accept that he wanted to be an actor.
evp	accept	verb	3	B2	to allow someone to join an organization or become part of a group	She was accepted to two of the universities she applied to.	When I returned home I checked my mail and I had a new message from my uncle, saying that the university have accepted me.
evp	accept	verb	4	B2	to admit that you caused something bad that happened	I accept full responsibility for the failure of the plan.	
evp	acceptable	adjective	1	B1	good enough	This kind of behavior is not acceptable.	I am sure that finally I will succeed in us]in English in an acceptable way!
evp	acceptable	adjective	2	C1	allowed or approved of	It's not socially acceptable to wear jeans and a T-shirt to a wedding.	They should teach them what is right and wrong, and what is morally and socially acceptable.
evp	acceptance	noun	1	C1	when you accept something	His acceptance of the award was controversial.	The main reason for the "fast-food" groceries winning acceptance in Swedish culture is lack of time.
evp	accepted	adjective	1	C1	agreed with or approved of by most people	an accepted spelling	Competition can also be an accepted form of expression of one's aggression.
evp	access	noun	1	B1	the right or opportunity to use or look at something	Internet access	I would suggest free Internet access as an extra facility in our library.
evp	access	noun	2	B1	the way in which you can enter a place or get to a place	disabled access	[I]t will be tempting for the companies in town to move out where there is more space for expansion and easier access by trucks and cars.
evp	access	verb	1	B2	to find or see information, especially using a computer	You can access the files over the Internet.	We have more time to stay together at home, because we can access the internet at home.
evp	accessible	adjective	1	B2	able to be reached or easily gotten	The island resort is accessible by plane or ferry.	The museum is near the city center and is accessible by bus or walking.
evp	accessible	adjective	2	C2	easy to understand	They are attempting to make opera accessible to a wider audience.	Jacques Prevert, the French poet, changed our way of seeing the world by making poetry accessible to everyone.
evp	accessory	noun	1	C1	something extra that is not necessary but is attractive or useful	home/desk accessories	They find pleasure in looking at different clothes, shoes, accessories, gadgets and home furnishings.
evp	accident	noun	1	A2	something bad which happens that is not expected or intended, and which causes injury or damage	Josh had an accident and spilled water all over the floor.	I had an accident two weeks ago and now I can't do sport.
evp	accident	noun	2	B1	without being intended	I deleted the file by accident.	I was dancing and someone kicked me by accident and my glasses fell off]
evp	accidental	adjective	1	B2	happening by chance	accidental damage	
evp	accidentally	adverb	1	B1	by chance or by mistake	She accidentally knocked over a glass of water.	I accidentally broke one of your vases - the most beautiful one.
evp	acclaimed	adjective	1	C1	praised by a lot of people	the acclaimed singer and songwriter	In order to avoid s[uch an embarrassing inconsistency in the next meeting, I suggest inviting Colin Briggs, the acclaimed footballer, to talk to his fans.
evp	accommodations	noun	1	B2	a place to stay such as a hotel room	Tour operators are advertising accommodations as low as $79 per night in first-class hotels.	Concerning the accommodations, I prefer a cabin rather than to sleep in a tent.
evp	accompany	verb	1	B1	to go somewhere with someone	We accompanied her back to her hotel.	I asked my cousin to accompany me because she knew the way to the temple.
evp	accompany	verb	2	B1	to happen or exist at the same time as something else	The course books are accompanied by four CDs.	The weather was very hot and a shining sun accompanied us during our trip.
evp	accompany	verb	3	C2	to play music to support someone else who is playing or singing	He accompanied me on the piano.	Last year, for instance, the concert became a recital: two singers performed Lieder by Schubert accompanied by the piano and by the sweet sound of Arimany's golden flute.
evp	accomplish	verb	1	C1	to succeed in doing or finishing something	I feel like I didn't accomplish anything today.	To accomplish this, schools should try to respect the individuality of each child, give them chances to think more freely.
evp	account	noun	1	B1	an arrangement with a bank to keep your money there and to allow you to take it out when you need to	a checking/savings account	The man, whose name I can't remember, wrote a serious looking message in which he talked about a money transfer to a Swiss bank account.
evp	account	noun	2	B2	a written or spoken description of something that has happened	She gave a thrilling account  of her life in the jungle.	I would be very interested in participating and writing the accounts of our journeys.
evp	account	noun	3	B2	to consider something when judging a situation	A good architect takes account of the building's surroundings.	I hope you will take account of our request.
evp	account	noun	4	B2	to consider something when judging a situation	I think you have to take into account the fact that he's a good deal younger than the rest of us.	Taking into account all these arguments, I also think, like many people, that keeping animals in zoos is cruel and unnecessary.
evp	account	noun	5	B2	because of something	He doesn't eat any dairy products on account of the diet he is following.	On account of its location, it is always busy.
evp	account	noun	6	C1	as said by a lot of people	The party was, by all accounts, a great success.	I have known Michael Van Cleef for over two decades now, and he is, by all accounts, an exemplary worker.
evp	account	verb	1	C2	to be the reason for something, or to explain the reason for something	Can you account for your absence last Friday?	I could not account for what had happened.
evp	account	verb	2	C1	to form part of a total amount or number of something	Senior citizens account for more than 25 percent of the state's population.	If you look carefully at the attached pie-chart, you will easily see that the administration costs and the cost of entertainment account for a mere 15% of the total amount raised.
evp	accountable	adjective	1	C2	responsible for what you do and having to be able to explain your actions	Hospitals must be held accountable for their mistakes.	Finally, there should be a person who should be held accountable and is accessible to our complaints.
evp	accountant	noun	1	B1	someone whose job is to keep or examine the financial records of a person or organization	a tax accountant	I am working as an accountant at Deloitte & Touche.
evp	accumulate	verb	1	C1	to increase in amount over a period of time, or to make something increase over a period of time	The chemicals accumulate in your body.	There's nothing you can do with the waste, and that piled-up litter begins to unpleasantly smell as it accumulates in enormous quantities, but what's worse it can be really dangerous as the weather is really hot.
evp	accumulation	noun	1	C2	an amount of something that has been collected	Despite this accumulation of evidence, the government did nothing.	What is success? For some it is the accumulation of possessions, for others it's fame, health, love.
evp	accuracy	noun	1	B2	how correct or exact something is	We can predict changes with a surprising degree of accuracy.	I was very disappointed to observe your lack of accuracy in the description of this wonderful event.
evp	accurate	adjective	1	B2	correct, exact and without any mistakes	accurate information/measurements	Some information in the Guidebook was not very accurate.
evp	accurately	adverb	1	B2	in an accurate way	The plans should be drawn as accurately as possible, showing all the measurements.	It's necessary to consider a lot of aspects to answer this question accurately, but in general I would prefer to go to work by bicycle.
evp	accusation	noun	1	C1	when you say that someone has done something bad	He made a number of accusations against his former colleagues.	I have enclosed the Distribution Chart in order to prevent you from making further accusations.
evp	accuse	verb	1	B2	to say that someone has done something bad	He's been accused of robbery/murder.	They were accused of vandalism.
evp	ache	noun	1	B1	a feeling of pain over an area of your body which continues for a long time	As you get older, you have all sorts of aches and pains.	Since then, I have had an ache in my left leg.
evp	ache	verb	1	B2	to have a continuous pain that is unpleasant but not strong	My head/tooth/back aches.	After an hour of horseback riding your muscles can really ache.
evp	achieve	verb	1	B1	to succeed in doing something good, usually by working hard	She finally achieved her goal to visit South America.	My father is a person who has achieved a lot of great things in his life.
evp	achievement	noun	1	B1	something very good and difficult that you have succeeded in doing	An Olympic silver medal is a remarkable achievement for such a young athlete.	I think this is an achievement because he is now a lawyer.
evp	acid	noun	1	B2	a liquid substance that can react chemically with and sometimes dissolve other materials	hydrochloric/fatty acid	We saw a little black dragon with scales like iron charging at us and spitting acid.
evp	acknowledge	verb	1	C1	to accept that something is true or exists	He acknowledged that there was a problem.	Therefore, the most important lesson to learn is to acknowledge the necessity of education and to strive to make it happen.
evp	acknowledge	verb	2	C1	to say, usually in writing, that you have received something that someone sent you	He sent a letter acknowledging receipt of her application.	Please could you acknowledge the receipt of this letter.
evp	acquaintance	noun	1	C1	someone who you know but do not know well	He's an acquaintance of ours.	She has many friends and acquaintances and spends a lot of time with them.
evp	acquire	verb	1	B2	to get something	He acquired the company in 1978.	I would like to join the club because I will be able to acquire more stamps for my collection.
evp	acquire	verb	2	B2	to learn something	to acquire knowledge/skills	I have already acquired experience in the Tourism Field, working as a guard in a summer camp in Florida in 1997.
evp	acre	noun	1	C2	a unit for measuring area, equal to 4047 square meters or 4840 square yards	He owns 400 acres of land in California.	We have to admit that, not only because of the financial weakness but also because of the badly organized plans, we failed to achieve the planting of 10,000 trees per acre.
evp	across	adverb	1	A2	from one side of something to the other	She walked across the field/road.	My new phone is great. It is black with white lines going across it.
evp	across	adverb	2	C2	happening or having an effect on everyone or everything in every area	The improvement has been across the board, with all divisions reporting increased profits.	Children in separate schools get on with things regardless of it being work for boys or girls, which can be quite positive especially in today's lifestyles where chores are done across the board.
evp	act	verb	1	B1	to perform in a movie, play, etc.	Have you ever acted in a play before?	We are taught how to act in both comic and serious parts.
evp	act	verb	2	B1	to behave in a particular way	He acted as if he'd never met me before.	I always care about how much money I have and I always act sensibly.
evp	act	verb	3	B2	to do something, especially in order to solve a problem	She acted without thinking.	We can make the village much more attractive than it has ever been. If we act together as a group, things will be easier.
evp	act	verb	4	B2	to do a particular job, especially one that you do not normally do	He was asked to act as an advisor on the project.	In the last race held by Nostred Motor Klub, I saw that you were short of officials. Now I think I can act as an official in your club.
evp	act	noun	1	B1	one of the parts a play is divided into	Her character doesn't appear until Act 2.	Everything was going all right, until we reached the "balcony act".
evp	act	noun	2	B2	something that someone does	an act of aggression/kindness/terrorism	I think that reading is an act of intelligence because animals can't read, while watching T.V. is only an act of having fun!!!
evp	act	noun	3	C2	behavior that hides your real feelings or intentions	Was she really upset or was that just an act?	Sometimes what is put on display for the tourists is all an act and gives you a different impression and opinion of the country and people, so it would be advisable to meet some local people like the butcher or baker and have a talk with them.
evp	act	noun	4	C2	to become better organized so that you can make progress	I wish she'd get her act together.	He was determined to get his act together and try to find a solution to his problem.
evp	action	noun	1	B1	things which are happening, especially exciting or important things	I like movies with a lot of action. / I like action movies.	We’re planning to see "King Arth[u]r." Everyone said it's a nice movie with some action and some mystery.
evp	action	noun	2	B2	something that you do	We must take action before the problem gets worse.	I decided to take action on my own.
evp	action	noun	3	C1	a process in a law court when a person claims to have been harmed	They are considering taking legal action against the company.	If this matter does not receive your prompt attention, I will be forced to take legal action. (760644; Certificate in Advanced English; Poland; C1 EFFECTIVE OPERATIONAL PROFICIENCY; 2000; Polish; Fail
evp	action	noun	4	C1	something that you can do in a particular situation	I think the best course of action would be to write to him.	However, I believe that the best course of action in this case is to give our student a refund.
evp	action	noun	5	C2	fighting in a war	He was killed in action.	It was a shock when she got to know that her husband had been killed in action.
evp	action	noun	6	C2	a movement or natural process	The rocks are smoothed by the action of water.	The area of Sayago - in the Spanish province of Zamora - and Tras-os-Montes, in Portugal, are joined by a natural border: the river Duero and the rocky canyon that has been eroded for millions of years by the action of the water.
evp	active	adjective	1	B1	doing a lot of things, or moving around a lot	physically/socially active	Nico is a very active guy and I enjoyed going out with him very much.
evp	active	adjective	2	B1	An active verb or sentence is one in which the subject is the person or thing doing the action.	"Anna told me" is an active sentence, and "I was told by Anna" is passive.	
evp	active	adjective	3	B2	very involved in an organization or planned activity	She remains active in local arts organizations.	I have always been very active in different organizations, sports as well as charity.
evp	active	adjective	4	C1	An active volcano could throw out hot gas, melting rock, thick dust, etc., at any time.	Kilauea in Hawaii is one of the world's most active volcanoes.	The beautiful, crystal blue sea and the small white houses, the bright orange of the sky during the evening and the unidentified color of the volcanic rocks around the great, active volcano are just a few of the colors that paint the natural beauty of Thera.
evp	actively	adverb	1	B2	in a way that involves positive action	He's very actively involved in the local politics.	There are several Non-Governmental Organization[s] supporting their claim, and they work actively to prevent any further pollution.
evp	activity	noun	1	A2	something that is done for enjoyment, especially an organized event	The center offers a range of activities, such as basketball, swimming and tennis.	We did many activities: playing games, singing and watching a magic show.
evp	activity	noun	2	B2	the work of a group or organization to achieve an aim	Energy companies have concentrated their business activity in Houston.	But Rollo was also a good man, so when a policeman, called Calloway, informed him about [Harry's] illegal activity, he turned against him.
evp	activity	noun	3	B2	when a lot of things are happening or people are moving around	Officials are concerned by the low level of economic activity.	Technical progress and industrial activity are causing a lot of problems.
evp	actor	noun	1	A2	someone whose job is to perform in plays, movies, etc.	"Who's your favorite actor?" "Robert de Niro."	We watched a DVD called "Minority Report" with the actor Tom Cruise.
evp	actual	adjective	1	B2	real, not guessed or imagined	We estimated about 300 visitors, but the actual number was much higher.	In my opinion, Burgers' Bush, Safari & Zoo in Arnhem has found the perfect solution. The actual zoo is rather small but each animal has a lot of space for running or wandering around.
evp	actually	adverb	1	A2	used when you are emphasizing what is really true or what really happened	I don't actually like seafood.	Last night I was at your house and I think I have left my purse there. It's actually quite important because my Identi[ty] Card is inside.
evp	actually	adverb	2	B1	used when you are emphasizing something surprising	An old friend of mine from college was actually at the same concert - I hadn't seen her for years!	It was so cool, man! They had actually built a good skate park with a pool, a halfpipe, a funbox, several rails and of course many ramps.
evp	actually	adverb	3	B2	used when you are correcting someone, disagreeing with someone, or saying no to a request	Actually, it was Tuesday of last week, not Wednesday.	Actually, TORRENTS was the second group at the festival] I think you probably missed the first performance in which KING CUP sang.
evp	ad	noun	1	A1	an advertisement	TV/newspaper ads	I'm Georgia from class 8. I've seen your ad for the concert at school.
evp	adapt	verb	1	B2	to change your behavior so that it is suitable for a new situation	It takes time to adapt to a new environment.	I and my parents easily adapted to London, and to English people.
evp	adapt	verb	2	B2	to change something so that it is suitable for a different use or situation	Many companies have adapted popular applications to the smartphones and tablets.	In my opinion, as the town is not so big it will be enough to adapt the two areas outside the town walls and to use them for car parking.
evp	adaptation	noun	1	C1	the process or act of changing to suit a new situation	Evolution occurs as a result of adaptation to new environments.	This varies from one person to another, it depends on everyone's priorities and degree of adaptation to their new communities.
evp	add	verb	1	A2	to put something with something else	Beat the butter and sugar together and slowly add the eggs.	When we have a special day we also cook manto, which is made from meat, vegetables and bread. You must pour some mint juice on top and to be more delicious, you must add chili.
evp	add	verb	2	A2	to put two or more numbers or amounts together to get a total	If you add three and four you get seven.	My math teacher is going to give me 5 marks which will be added to my exam grade]
evp	add	verb	3	B1	to say another thing	She was sad, she said, but added that she felt she had made the right decision.	The guide told us they called it Swan Lake because there are lots of swans and added that the swans come from all over the country.
evp	add	verb	4	C2	to make someone's bad situation worse by doing something else to upset them	To add insult to injury, we had to pay for the damage!	To add insult to injury, such an approach often turns out to be counterproductive.
evp	add	verb	5	B2	to make a feeling or quality more extreme	Her colleagues' laughter only added to her embarrassment.	To add to the bitterness, I had my right hand broken.
evp	add	verb	6	B1	to calculate the total of two or more numbers	I added everything up and it comes to $45.80.	
evp	addict	noun	1	B2	a person who cannot stop doing or using something, especially something harmful	a drug/heroin addict	I like TV, I watch it but luckily I haven't become a TV addict yet.
evp	addicted	adjective	1	B2	not able to stop taking a drug	He later became addicted to heroin.	One day my uncle called and told me a story of a boy who was addicted to drugs.
evp	addicted	adjective	2	B2	liking something very much	He's addicted to chocolate/football.	However, I believe that some people are addicted to computer games and that is not good.
evp	addiction	noun	1	B2	when you cannot stop doing or taking something because you are addicted to it	drug addiction	Sending text messages is an addiction which every teenager is obsessed with.
evp	addictive	adjective	1	C1	If something is addictive, it makes you want more of it.	Some prescription pain-killers are addictive.	Lastly, we cannot overlook the fact that modern technology can be really addictive for such people as teenagers, who are not mature enough to appreciate the value of face-to-face contact.
evp	additional	adjective	1	B2	extra	additional costs/problems	I do have some additional questions for you.
evp	address	noun	1	A1	the details of where a building is, including the building number, street name, city or town, etc.	her business/home address	Pl[ease] tell me your address.
evp	address	noun	2	A1	a series of letters, numbers or punctuation marks referring to a Web site or e-mail destination	Do you have their Web address?	P.S [This] is my new e-mail address: xxxxxxxxx
evp	address	verb	1	C1	to deal with a problem	We have to address the issue/problem before it gets worse.	You will have to admit the lack of any monthly publications addressing this issue.
evp	address	verb	2	C2	to speak to someone, or to give a speech to an audience	He addressed the crowd after receiving the award.	He inhaled deeply before addressing the group again.
evp	address	verb	3	C2	to write a name and address on an envelope or package	I spent the morning addressing wedding invitations.	The envelope was addressed to Kathleen.
evp	adequate	adjective	1	B2	enough	I didn't have adequate time to prepare.	I hope the information I gave is adequate.
evp	adequate	adjective	2	B2	good enough, but not very good	The sound quality isn't great, but it's adequate for everyday use.	In my opinion, animals should only be kept in a zoo that provides adequate living conditions and sufficient room.
evp	adequately	adverb	1	B2	in an adequate way	While some patients can be adequately cared for at home, others are best served by care in a
hospital.	
evp	adjacent	adjective	1	C2	If two things are adjacent, they are next to each other.	The fire started in an adjacent building.	I assume better infrastructure and a parking lot adjacent to the library would make a huge difference.
evp	adjective	noun	1	A2	a word that describes a noun or pronoun	"Big," "boring," "purple," "quick" and "obvious" are all adjectives.	
evp	adjust	verb	1	B2	to change something slightly so that it works better, fits better, or is more suitable	If the chair is too high you can adjust it to suit you.	I had to clean the lenses, prepare the tapes, and adjust the sound.
evp	adjust	verb	2	B2	to change the way you behave or think in order to suit a new situation	They found it hard to adjust to life in a new country.	People will be able to adjust and change with the times.
evp	adjustment	noun	1	B2	a small change that you make to something so that it works better, fits better, or is more suitable	We've made a few adjustments to the schedule.	I have some questions and a minor adjustment to make.
evp	administration	noun	1	C1	the work of organizing and arranging the operation of something, such as a company	The job involves a lot of administration.	For schools, it is much easier in terms of administration.
evp	administration	noun	2	C2	the people in an organization who manage its business and operations	The decision to cancel the trip was made by the school administration.	As far as I have been informed, the administration of the hospital has already talked to you about this issue, but as nothing has changed since, I feel that is my obligation to mention it in this letter.
evp	administration	noun	3	C2	the politicians who govern a town, city, country, etc., or the period a particular elected government is in charge	The current administration faces serious economic issues.	The opening of the Alpha Ville Shopping Centre at Santa Maria High Street is a remarkable achievement from the current administration of Mr. Paul Hawley, Mayor of our town.
evp	administrative	adjective	1	C1	relating to the organization and management of something	The work is largely administrative.	The engineers and administrative staff must be able to work in both English and French whereas German would be an asset.
evp	administrator	noun	1	C1	someone who helps to manage an organization	She is an administrator at the hospital.	As an ex-army officer and an administrator in an international firm, I am learning to work as a member of a team.
evp	admiration	noun	1	B2	when you admire someone or something	My admiration for that woman grows daily.	All over the world there are so many people who deserve admiration.
evp	admire	verb	1	B1	to find someone or something attractive and pleasant to look at	I was just admiring your jacket, Delia.	It was a sunny day, luckily, so I was able to admire the lake and the Marmolada, the highest mountain in the Dolomit[es].
evp	admire	verb	2	B2	to respect or approve of someone or something	I admired him for his determination.	The person I admire most, however, is my father.
evp	admission	noun	1	B1	the money that you pay to enter a place or an event	Art exhibition - free admission.	We believe that this is a great opportunity because it is one of the best shows of the year, and the best part is that the admission is free for students.
evp	admission	noun	2	B2	when someone is given permission to enter somewhere or to become a member of a club, university, etc.	She's applied for admission to law school.	I was wondering whether you could send me some information about the rules of admission to the club.
evp	admit	verb	1	B1	to agree that something is true, especially unwillingly	He admitted his mistake.	I read very often, especially after (and, I admit, sometimes during) meals and before sleeping.
evp	admittedly	adverb	1	B2	used when you are agreeing that something is true although you do not want to	Admittedly, I could have tried harder but I still don't think all this criticism is fair.	Admittedly, using your car is more convenient and easier than using public transport but in my opinion, the advantages of using public transport outweigh the disadvantages it can cause.
evp	adolescent	noun	1	C2	a young person who is between being a child and an adult	Many adolescents are secretive.	Children become adolescents with more freedom and yet more responsibilities.
evp	adopt	verb	1	B2	to legally become the parents of someone else's child	They've adopted a baby girl.	She isn't my biological mother, she adopted me when I was a baby.
evp	adopt	verb	2	B2	to accept or start to use something new	We've adopted a new approach to the problem.	I believe that we must continue to adopt his ideas.
evp	adopted	adjective	1	B2	legally taken by another family to be looked after as their own child	They adopted two of their four children.	
evp	adoption	noun	1	B2	the process of legally becoming the parents of someone else's child	She couldn't have children, so they were considering adoption.	
evp	adult	noun	1	A1	a person or animal that has grown to full size and strength	Adults pay an admission charge but children get in free.	Dear Jo, The class day is Wednesday for children (8-16[s]) and Tuesday for adults.
evp	adult	adjective	1	A2	for or relating to adults	adult education	[After the wedding,] we go to a restaurant to celebrate. There are two types of menu, the adult one, and the one for the children.
evp	adult	adjective	2	C1	having finished growing	an adult male rat	Tony Soprano is the bad kid in every adult male.
evp	advanced	adjective	1	A2	at a higher, more difficult level	an advanced English course	I just couldn't stay with my old classmates because they were too slow and I needed a more advanced group.
evp	advanced	adjective	2	B1	modern and well developed	advanced technology	We are living in the 21st century where everybody is surrounded by advanced technological methods.
evp	advantage	noun	1	B1	something good about a situation that helps you	One of the advantages of booking a flight in advance is that you get better seats.	Surely it would be an advantage that you speak English and German, because of all the foreign tourists.
evp	advantage	noun	2	B1	to use something good in a situation to help you	I thought I'd take advantage of the exercise facility while I'm here.	When I bought my ticket I expected to be able to take advantage of those discounts you announced in the newspaper advertisement but I had to pay the most expensive price.
evp	advantage	noun	3	B2	to treat someone or something badly in order to get what you want	I think she takes advantage of his good nature.	There will always be the threat of those men who take advantage of animals' inferior status.
evp	advantage	noun	4	B2	something that will help you to succeed	These new routes will give the airline an advantage over its competitors.	
evp	adventure	noun	1	A2	an exciting and sometimes dangerous experience	It's a movie about the adventures of two friends traveling through Africa.	My favorite present was a trip to Egypt. I like it because I will have adventures and be able to explore other countries.
evp	adventurous	adjective	1	B2	willing to try new and often difficult or dangerous things	I'm trying to be more adventurous with my cooking.	I think it's better for us to sleep in tents because it'll be more adventurous than staying in rooms.
evp	adverb	noun	1	A2	a word which describes or gives more information about a verb, adjective, another adverb or a phrase	In the phrase "she smiled cheerfully," the word "cheerfully" is an adverb.	
evp	advertise	verb	1	B1	to tell people about a product or service in newspapers, on television, on the Internet, etc.	Companies are not allowed to advertise cigarettes on television any more.	On this bus we can advertise the village's best products.
evp	advertise	verb	2	B1	to put information in a newspaper, on the Internet, etc. asking for someone or something that you need	The university is advertising for catering staff.	Dear Sir/Madam, I wish to apply for the post of helper which was advertised on the college notice board last Monday.
evp	advertisement	noun	1	A2	a picture, short film, song, etc. which tries to persuade people to buy a product or service	a television/newspaper advertisement	Hi Jo, I've seen an advertisement for a job that might interest you at the music shop near the park.
evp	advertising	noun	1	B2	the business of trying to persuade people to buy products or services	Fiona works in advertising.	Some weeks ago, she was hired by a famous advertising company, widely known for its ironic ads.
evp	advice	noun	1	A2	suggestions about what you think someone should do or how they should do something	Steven gave me some good advice.	I have to send in the application form soon, so if you can give me some advice, it would be great!
evp	advise	verb	1	B1	to make a suggestion about what you think someone should do or how they should do something	I think I'd advise him to leave the company.	I advise you to go there and have a good time.
evp	adviser	noun	1	C1	someone whose job is to give advice about a subject	a financial adviser	Some of our financial advisers could provide your students with the latest methods used in Accounting and in developing new business projects.
evp	advocate	verb	1	C2	to express support for a particular idea or way of doing things	I certainly wouldn't advocate the use of violence.	Just like Mahatma Gandhi, who advocated non-violent methods of struggle, Picasso struggled against fascism by peaceful means, namely with his art.
evp	advocate	noun	1	C2	someone who supports a particular idea or way of doing things	He has always been an advocate of space exploration.	Advocates of international tourism subscribe to the view that mass tourism offers benefits to the whole community.
evp	affair	noun	1	B2	a situation, matter, or set of related events that is being dealt with or considered	The meeting was addressed by an expert in South American affairs.	To make matters worse, people gossiped about me and tried to find out more and more about my private affairs, which made me feel embarrassed.
evp	affair	noun	2	B2	a sexual relationship, especially a secret one	Do you think he's having an affair with someone?	I am that kind of individual that loves stories, they can be either love affairs or fantastic adventures but I really enjoy getting involved in some kind of story.
evp	affect	verb	1	B2	to have an influence on someone or something, or to cause them to change	The divorce affected every aspect of her life.	The telephone is a very important invention, which has affected our lives.
evp	affect	verb	2	B2	to cause a strong emotion, especially sadness	I was deeply affected by the film.	When the fourth song, 'Rebel[l]ion' started, I was deeply affected by the rhythm.
evp	affection	noun	1	B2	a feeling of liking or loving a person or place	He had a deep affection for his aunt.	In addition she loves me very much and she offers a lot of affection to me when I face a difficult situation with my job.
evp	affectionate	adjective	1	C2	showing that you like or love someone	an affectionate child	She is attentive and affectionate, but most of all she is a sweet mother.
evp	affluent	adjective	1	C1	having a lot of money	affluent suburbs/neighborhoods/families	Children who come from poor families are more mature and responsible than those children coming from affluent families.
evp	affordable	adjective	1	C1	cheap enough for most people to be able to buy	We need more affordable housing in this area.	They are very pleased with the affordable fares, however they are more inclined to comfort.
evp	after	adverb	1	A2	later than someone or something else	Hilary got here at noon and Nicholas arrived soon after.	Hi Joe, I would love to see the film with you. We must have dinner after.
evp	afternoon	noun	1	A1	the time between the middle of the day and the evening	It was a sunny afternoon.	She cooks every afternoon.
evp	afterward	adverb	1	A2	at a later time, after something else has happened	We had lunch, and afterward we sat on the deck and watched the kids play in the pool.	After that we have a Disco[,] and Buffet of food afterward.
evp	again	adverb	1	A1	once more	Could you spell your name again, please?	Thank you again.
evp	again	adverb	2	A2	as before	Get some rest and you'll soon be well again.	Unfortunately, it started to rain when we were leaving the town, but five minutes later the weather became warm again.
evp	again	adverb	3	B1	many times	He played the same song again and again.	I read it again and again and was more and more surprised.
evp	again	adverb	4	B1	again	Once again I'm left with all the dirty dishes!	Once again I'm sorry.
evp	again	adverb	5	B2	repeated from the beginning	We had to start all over again.	After that I went back to my home in Ribeirao Preto to begin my routine all over again.
evp	again	adverb	6	B2	again after something has happened or been done many times before	The bus was late yet again.	Tom, thank you so much yet again for your interest, this talk is very important to me and to count on you is an honour for our college.
evp	again	adverb	7	C2	used when adding a fact to something you have just said	I failed my history test - but then again, I didn't do much studying for it.	The fact that people live longer nowadays does have some advantages, but then again it also causes a lot of problems.
evp	age	noun	1	A1	the number of years that someone has lived, or that something has existed	I'd guess she's about my age.	She is the same age as me.
evp	age	noun	2	B2	a particular period of history	the modern/information age	You can begin by visiting its castle, which goes back to the middle ages.
evp	age	noun	3	C2	the state of being old or becoming old	He is starting to show his age.	Usually, as the saying goes, we grow wiser with age.
evp	age	noun	4	C2	at the young age of 8/17/25, etc.	She first appeared on stage at the tender age of 12.	She met my father at the tender age of 14, and she soon knew that this was the man she wanted to stay with for the rest of her life.
evp	aged	adjective	1	A2	of the age of	They've got one daughter, Isabel, aged 3.	It's a club for pupils aged between twelve and eighteen.
evp	agency	noun	1	B1	a business that provides a service	an advertising/employment/real estate/travel agency	As you know I am employed in a travel agency and last week I started my new English class.
evp	agency	noun	2	C1	an international or government organization	the Environmental Protection Agency	Television conveys the weather forecasts and any warnings issued by the government agencies, such as flood alerts.
evp	agenda	noun	1	C1	a list of subjects that people will discuss at a meeting	There are several items on the agenda.	Your memo was one of the points on the agenda for last week's meeting.
evp	agenda	noun	2	C2	important subjects that have to be dealt with	Finding a job is at the top of my agenda.	Of course, the Temple de la Sagrada Familia was at the top of my agenda, but I could never imagine its beauty and its gigantic size by which I was really taken aback.
evp	agent	noun	1	B2	someone whose job is to deal with business for someone else	Please contact our agent in Spain for further information.	I hope the agent will sell it soon.
evp	agent	noun	2	B2	someone who tries to find out secret information, especially about another country	a secret agent	She interrupted and told the man that she was a secret agent.
evp	ages	noun	1	B1	a very long time	I've been waiting here for ages.	I feel like I've been here for ages.
evp	aggression	noun	1	C1	angry or violent behavior toward someone	an act of aggression	However, it can turn into a terrible form of violence and aggression, where the very sense of competition is forgotten and only wild instincts prevail.
evp	aggressive	adjective	1	B2	behaving in an angry and violent way toward another person	aggressive behavior	At such moments he became angry and aggressive.
evp	aggressive	adjective	2	C1	using forceful methods and determined to succeed	The company mounted an aggressive marketing campaign.	Our competitors pursue a more aggressive marketing strategy, despite the fact that they offer inferior products.
evp	aggressively	adverb	1	B2	in an aggressive way	Small children often behave aggressively.	
evp	ago	adverb	1	A2	used to refer to a time in the past	He left the house over an hour ago.	Two months ago I booked a trip to Malta.
evp	ago	adverb	2	C1	If something happened long ago, it happened a great amount of time ago.	I think we met once, long ago.	Not so long ago, you could ring each Dutch doorbell of your choice at 6 pm and you'd find the whole family gathered around the kitchen table, having their supper.
evp	agree	verb	1	A2	to have the same opinion as someone	I agree with you.	Do you agree with me?
evp	agree	verb	2	B1	to decide something with someone	We agreed to meet on Sunday.	We were not so sure which film we wanted to see but we agreed to see "Blade 3" at seven o'clock.
evp	agree	verb	3	B2	to say you will do something that someone asks you to	She agreed to help him.	When I came home, I told my mother everything and she agreed to put him up.
evp	agree	verb	4	C1	If two descriptions, statements, etc., agree, they are the same.	Her notes do not agree with what I remember happening.	This does not agree with the intentions of our Program.
evp	agree	verb	5	B2	to think that something is correct or acceptable	I don't agree with hunting.	I don't agree with keeping animals in zoos; I think that it's cruel and unnecessary.
evp	agreement	noun	1	B2	a promise or decision made between two or more groups or people	an agreement with the company	There was an attempt to cut down on using and producing sprays which destroy the ozone layer and an international agreement was signed.
evp	agreement	noun	2	B2	when people have the same opinion or make the same decision	Are we all in agreement?	The decision of not taking that tour has already been made by general agreement.
evp	agriculture	noun	1	B2	farming	Agriculture is still largely based on traditional methods in some countries.	People who live in big cities suffer from air pollution and noise, and villagers suffer from chemicals used for agriculture.
evp	ahead	adverb	1	B1	in front	Turn left at the traffic light, and you'll see the hospital straight ahead.	Behind our school there was a beautiful forest and if you walked 200 meters straight ahead you would reach a clearing.
evp	ahead	adverb	2	B1	in the future	She has a difficult time ahead of her.	Even if you're satisfied with your life now, take a look 10 or 20 years ahead.
evp	ahead	adverb	3	B2	having more points than someone else in a competition	Barcelona was ahead after ten minutes.	
evp	ahead	adjective	1	C1	before the time that was planned	We finished the project ahead of schedule.	However, a bonus will be given if the project finishes ahead of schedule.
evp	ahead	adjective	2	C2	making more progress than someone or something else	Sue is ahead of everyone else in French.	I have always been a couple of steps ahead of my schoolmates and peers, not only in terms of scholastic pursuits, but in my opinions and desires as well.
evp	aid	noun	1	C1	help or support	She went to the aid of a man trapped in his car.	If you have any trouble with something do not hesitate i] requesting my aid.
evp	aid	noun	2	C1	money, food, or equipment that is given to help a country or group of people	Emergency aid was sent to the flood victims.	Another thing which they say is that in the past they gave aid to poorer countries for different projects.
evp	aid	noun	3	C1	using something to help you	She walks with the aid of a cane.	The newest computer can handle data that human brains cannot and therefore all scientific research is carried out with the aid of computers.
evp	aid	noun	4	C1	a piece of equipment that helps you to do something	teaching aids such as books and videos	In particular, the magazine could be considered as a rather good additional aid for someone studying the Greek language and culture.
evp	aid	verb	1	C1	to help someone	The project is designed to aid the homeless.	This kind of bad publicity will not aid the hospital in any way, but will instead keep people away from future events.
evp	aim	noun	1	B1	the purpose of doing something, and what you hope to achieve	He went to Paris with the aim of improving his French.	The aim was to get a picture of each person.
evp	aim	verb	1	B1	to intend to achieve something	I aim to be a millionaire by the time I'm 35.	Our English Club aims to help students with their English.
evp	aim	verb	2	B2	to be intended to influence or affect a particular person or group	These advertisements are specifically aimed at young people.	PIAZZA is too modern and is aimed at the young.
evp	aim	verb	3	C2	to be intended to achieve a particular thing	a plan aimed at reducing traffic	Working within projects aimed at improving local agricultural output, I stayed 3 years in South America.
evp	air	noun	1	A2	travel in an aircraft	I don't travel much by air.	I will travel there by air.
evp	air	noun	2	A2	the mixture of gases that surrounds the earth and that we breathe	I went outside to get some fresh air.	There are lots of different kinds of animals, lakes, fresh air and trees.
evp	air	noun	3	B2	the space above and around things	He kicked the ball high in the air.	It was an old painting. In it, a man was holding his axe up in the air and was ready to hit a tree.
evp	air	noun	4	C1	played on television or radio	His show is on the air from 11:00 to 11:30 Monday through Thursday.	As you can see, it’s probably the first chance to learn good English on T.V. Another surprising thing is that it's not on the air too late, so you can watch it without oversleeping in the morning.
evp	air	noun	5	C2	a particular appearance or quality	He has an air of confidence.	The service is excellent and the atmosphere is quite nice, with an air of elegance.
evp	air	noun	6	C2	to get rid of bad feelings between two people or groups	We had a big argument, but I think it helped clear the air.	I rushed into the room to cheer them up and clear the air, although I knew it was too late.
evp	air	noun	7	C2	to suddenly disappear in a mysterious way	He was on the path ahead of me and then vanished into thin air.	Sitting on a couch and squeezed between my elderly aunts, I sincerely wished I could vanish into thin air.
evp	air	noun	8	C2	someone or something that is new, different, and exciting	Having Eve around has been a breath of fresh air.	Should this be everything the Town Council has promised, it will bring a breath of fresh air for our local youth.
evp	air conditioning	noun	1	B1	the system used for keeping the air in a building or vehicle cool	I wish my car had air conditioning.	The rooms are big and there['s] cable TV and air conditioning.
evp	aircraft	noun	1	B2	any vehicle, with or without an engine, which can fly, such as a plane or helicopter	military/commercial aircraft	They have all the Swedish aircraft that have ever been built.
evp	air force	noun	1	B1	the part of a country's military organization that uses aircraft to fight wars	an air force pilot	During the day you can visit all of our museums or schools or even the air force base, which is open from 9[:]00 until [6:]00.
evp	airline	noun	1	B1	a company that provides regular flights to places	What airline did you fly?	She explained the situation to the authorities and because there was no flight back to London, the airline had no choice but to pay for her stay.
evp	airplane	noun	1	A2	a vehicle that flies and has at least one engine and wings	She has her own private airplane.	I will travel by airplane and I will arrive at half past three.
evp	airport	noun	1	A2	a place where aircraft regularly take off and land, with buildings for passengers to wait in	an international airport	The lake is not far from the airport.
evp	alarm	noun	1	B1	a loud noise or flashing light that warns you of danger	a burglar/car/fire/smoke alarm	It turned out that the fire alarm had gone off and they had to evacuate the building.
evp	alarm	noun	2	B1	a clock or a device in a watch, cell phone, etc. that makes a noise to wake you	The alarm went off at 5:30 and she got up immediately.	Suddenly the alarm started to ring and I woke up to go to school.
evp	alarm	noun	3	C2	a sudden feeling of fear or worry that something bad might happen	There's no need for alarm - everything is fine.	Fortunately, her soothing voice damped down any sense of alarm.
evp	alarm	verb	1	C1	to make someone worried or frightened	I don't want to alarm you but he really should be here by now.	What alarmed us the most was the daring use of speculation by the author.
evp	alarm clock	noun	1	A2	a clock that you can set to wake you up at a particular time with a loud noise	My alarm clock went off at 5:00.	He gave me an alarm clock so I won't be late for school any more.
evp	alarming	adjective	1	C1	causing worry or fear	alarming news	Moreover, the alarming frequency of heart attacks in Poland has made people stop eating too much fat.
evp	album	noun	1	A2	a book in which you keep photographs, stamps, etc.	We looked through his photo albums together.	He gave me a photo album.
evp	album	noun	2	B1	several songs or pieces of music on a CD, a record, etc.	They've just make/recorded a new album.	I got a CD-player and a new album by U2 and a new book by Jeanette Winterson.
evp	alcohol	noun	1	A2	drinks such as wine and beer which can make you drunk	Most wines contain between 10% and 15% alcohol.	The party was excellent. We danced, ate, drank alcohol and...
evp	alcoholic	adjective	1	B1	containing alcohol	alcoholic beverages	I'm only 15 years old and not allowed to drink alcoholic drinks.
evp	alcoholic	adjective	2	C2	regularly drinking too much alcohol and unable to stop the habit	an alcoholic friend/brother	Numerous examples of divorced couples, alcoholic parents, orphans, and children without principles, should stay in our minds.
evp	alcoholic	noun	1	C2	someone who regularly drinks too much alcohol and cannot stop the habit	He became an alcoholic when his wife left him.	The quality of the orchestra was poor - it only consisted of amateurs - and the conductor was drunk - he was an alcoholic.
evp	alert	adjective	1	C1	quick to notice and react to things around you	A young dog should be alert and playful.	A little bit of tension is alright - I guess it keeps you alert while driving.
evp	alert	verb	1	C2	to warn someone of a possibly dangerous situation	The auto manufacturer alerted owners to a problem with the window and asked that they bring the car in to be checked.	Karl Marx alerted us all to the fact that work can cause alienation, and that repetitive tasks, or tasks which do not involve a great deal of interaction with other human beings, can make us feel estranged.
evp	alert	noun	1	C1	a warning about a possibly dangerous situation	a traffic alert	Moreover, the Television conveys the most needed day-to-day weather forecasts and any warnings issued by the government agencies, such as flood alerts.
evp	alike	adjective	1	B1	similar	The children all look very alike.	First of all, Jem and Joss Merlyn look alike physically.
evp	alike	adverb	1	B2	in a similar way	We think alike.	
evp	alike	adverb	2	B2	used after referring to two groups of people or things to show that both groups are included	Friends and family alike were shocked by the news of her death.	It was indeed a great treat for old and young alike.
evp	alive	adjective	1	B1	living, not dead	All of my grandparents are still alive.	I was very happy that my father was still alive.
evp	alive	adjective	2	C2	to continue to live or exist and be full of energy, or to be popular or successful	Jennifer is alive and well and living in New Zealand.	Little did they know that Patrik was alive and well and planning to return to the village next spring.
evp	alive	adjective	3	C2	full of activity and excitement	The park was alive with the sound of laughter.	Normally you would pass by without noticing it, but once a year Roskilde comes alive.
evp	alive	adjective	4	C2	continuing to exist	Local people are fighting to keep the language alive.	Thirdly, it keeps the village alive, since many people from other villages come to celebrate with them, and our national heritage (traditional songs, dances, costumes) is kept alive too.
evp	all	adverb	1	A2	completely or very	The cake was all eaten last night.	I'm going to tell you all about it.
evp	all	adverb	2	A2	in every place	He's traveled all over the world.	The people in the class are from all over the world.
evp	all	adverb	3	B2	from the beginning of a period of time	I knew all along that it was a mistake.	In the future the key word for fashion will be comfort as this is basically what everyone has been wanting all along.
evp	all	adverb	4	B2	considering everything	All in all, it was a great vacation.	All in all, nobody cares about air pollution and the environment in general.
evp	all	adverb	5	B2	in or to many different places	There were dirty dishes all over the place.	There was plenty of food and drinks, and there were about 180 guests dancing and chatting all over the place.
evp	all	adverb	6	C1	used to show that you do not agree with something or that you are annoyed about something	It's all very well for her to say everything's fine, she doesn't have to live here.	That's all very well for most of the people but according to my desires i]t' not enough.
evp	all	adverb	7	C1	to be ready	We were all set to go when the phone rang.	So, there you go. I'm all set!
evp	all	adverb	8	C2	much better, easier, more exciting, etc.	The journey was all the more dangerous because of the bad weather.	He had to overcome great obstacles in his professional and private lives, which makes his achievements all the more remarkable.
evp	all	adverb	9	C2	almost	The movie was all but over by the time we got there.	He could all but hear their stomachs rumble.
evp	allegation	noun	1	C1	when you say that someone has done something wrong or illegal, without proof that this is true	The allegations of corruption were not true.	In contrast to your allegations, our study shows that a vast majority (78%) use Greendale Park for recreation as often as once a week.
evp	allege	verb	1	C2	to say that something is true or state something as a fact without giving proof	Administration of the program is alleged to have cost $15,000 last month.	Advocates of perpetual economic growth allege that the world in which we live is a better place compared to what it was a long time ago.
evp	alleged	adjective	1	C1	believed to be true, but not proved	an alleged attack	Besides, as far as the alleged "downpour of rain" is concerned, there was, in reality, only a small April shower which lasted not more than 10 minutes.
evp	allegedly	adverb	1	C2	used to say something is thought to be true but is not proved	Someone at the company allegedly had lost the records.	Nevertheless, nowadays, people allegedly live longer than they did in the past.
evp	alliance	noun	1	C2	an agreement between people, countries, political parties, etc., to work together to achieve something	The mayor wants to form an alliance with local business leaders.	They took the opportunity and made an alliance with all the cities in Southern Greece under their command.
evp	allied	adjective	1	C2	joined by a formal agreement	the allied powers	During the Second World War, he joined the US Navy and was then sent on a mission to Brazil with the aim of patrolling the coasts to avoid a German bombing of allied ships.
evp	allocate	verb	1	C1	to give some time, money, space, etc., to be used for a particular purpose	We are discussing how to allocate use of the sports fields to the various teams.	We all know about globalization, which means producing, allocating resources, and distributing the products everywhere in the world.
evp	allocation	noun	1	C2	the providing of some money, time, space, etc., for a particular purpose	the allocation of funds/resources	However, the latter countries do differ in their allocation of money to services, with the US spending 0.3 per cent of the GDP and Spain spending only 0.1 per cent.
evp	allocation	noun	2	C2	a part of the money, time, space, etc., which can be used for a particular purpose	The budget includes an allocation for flood control along the river.	It is approximately equal to the US in government allocations to child support, but it is still behind Germany (0.25% vs. 2%).
evp	allow	verb	1	B1	to give someone permission for something	You're not allowed to talk during the exam.	I have very strict teachers and they won't allow me to enter the classroom if I'm late.
evp	allow	verb	2	C1	to plan to use a particular amount of money, time, etc., for something	Allow three hours for the whole trip.	You must be prepared to allow for an extra quarter of an hour.
evp	allow	verb	3	C1	to make it possible for someone to do something	The extra money will allow me to upgrade my computer.	These activities allow people to forget about their problems, to enjoy themselves and also to communicate with others.
evp	allow	verb	4	C2	to not prevent something from happening	They have allowed the problem to get worse.	A unanimous effort has to be made in order to improve the situation in education instead of allowing it to deteriorate.
evp	allowance	noun	1	C1	money that you are given regularly	a clothing allowance	She spends most of her allowance quickly and is then without money for the rest of the month.
evp	allowance	noun	2	C2	to remember that someone has a disadvantage which is not their fault when you are judging their behavior or work	They made allowances for the fact that he was ill.	I would say Mr. Stevens is a victim of his sense of duty, which makes him think of marriage as a traitor's act, but I don't know to what extent we should make allowances for his strong convictions.
evp	all right	adjective	1	A1	happening successfully or without problems	Did the interview go all right?	Tomorrow I have the day off, so everything is all right!
evp	all right	adjective	2	A2	not hurt or sick	"Harry just slipped on the ice." "Oh! Is he all right?"	Hi Jo How are you? I hope you are all right.
evp	all right	adjective	3	A2	used as an answer when someone thanks you, or something you say when someone says they are sorry, to show that you are not angry	"Thanks for getting the tickets." "That's all right."	That's all right. Don't worry about it]
evp	all right	adjective	4	A2	used to ask if you can do something or to say that someone can do something	Is it all right if I put some music on?	I asked him if it was all right if I stayed in his house and Mike answered: "Of course".
evp	all right	adjective	5	B1	good enough, although not very good	"What did you think of the movie?" "It was all right. Nothing special."	We arrived by ship and the trip was all right except my friend Tim was ill.
evp	ally	noun	1	C1	someone who supports you, especially when other people are against you	He is generally considered to be the Prime Minister's closest political ally.	The participants are under pressure and they have to find allies and make decisions.
evp	ally	noun	2	C2	a country that has agreed to help another country, especially in a war	During World War One, Turkey and Germany were allies.	So the allies didn't exclude the Germanies from the world community, including organizations like NATO, the Warsaw Pact or the UN.
evp	almost	adverb	1	A2	nearly but not quite	I almost missed the bus.	Did you know that almost the whole class came to my party?
evp	alone	adjective	1	A2	without other people	He likes being alone in the house.	She doesn't want to go alone.
evp	alone	adjective	2	B2	to stop talking to or annoying someone	Leave him alone, he's tired.	"Leave me alone, you monster," I said in panic.
evp	alone	adjective	3	C1	used to emphasize that something is more impossible than another thing	You couldn't trust her to look after your dog, let alone your child.	We are surrounded by amazing pieces of technology which we do not fully understand, let alone use to their full capacity.
evp	alone	adjective	4	C2	used to emphasize that only one person or thing is involved	Last year alone the company made a million dollars.	The decision was hers and hers alone.
evp	along	adverb	1	B1	moving forward	We were just walking along, chatting.	
evp	along	adverb	2	B1	with you	Why don't you take him along with you when you go?	My boyfriend came along with me.
evp	along	adverb	3	B2	at a particular place on a road, river, etc.	Somewhere along this road there's a garage.	She told me that along the road there are several places to visit, like a castle which is open to the public.
evp	along	adverb	4	B2	from the beginning of a period of time	I knew all along that it was a mistake.	In the future the key word for fashion will be comfort as this is basically what everyone has been wanting all along.
evp	along	adverb	5	B2	in addition to someone or something else	Now we’ve got hospital bills along with our usual expenses.	However, along with the good times, there also came the bad, terrible, awful ones.
evp	alongside	adverb	1	C1	next to someone or something	A car pulled up alongside ours.	The skyline is filled with huge chimneys displacing tons of gases into the air; millions of vehicles are moving on a highway alongside a dead river, where life flourished a few decades ago.
evp	alongside	adverb	2	C1	together with someone	She enjoyed working alongside such famous actors.	Also he worked alongside me at another travel agency for 6 months.
evp	aloud	adverb	1	B1	in a way that other people can hear	He read her letter aloud to the rest of the family.	Thinking aloud is an old habit of mine.
evp	alphabet	noun	1	B1	a set of letters arranged in a fixed order which is used for writing a language	the Cyrillic alphabet	They should learn the normal alphabet and handwriting because it is more friendly to write a letter to a friend.
evp	alphabetical	adjective	1	B2	arranged in the same order as the letters of the alphabet	an alphabetical list	She looked again at the strange words and then she understood. Each letter had been replaced by the next one in the alphabetical order.
evp	already	adverb	1	A2	before now, or before a particular time in the past	I asked him to come to the exhibition but he'd already seen it.	Juliana, I am going to start to paint my bedroom tomorrow. I have already bought the paint.
evp	already	adverb	2	B1	used to say that something has happened earlier than you expected	Are you buying Christmas cards already? It's only September!	Since I have already reserved a room for myself, I am now sitting o] the balcony, watching the beautiful views of the beach and tall pine trees.
evp	also	adverb	1	A1	in addition	She's a photographer and also writes books.	I also have a dog and I like to go for a walk with him]
evp	alter	verb	1	B2	to change, or to make someone or something change	We've had to alter some of our plans.	And this abundance of new experiences and revelations should result in altering, improving and broadening our outlook on life.
evp	alteration	noun	1	C1	a change, or the process of changing something	We've made a few alterations to the kitchen.	I hope that my alterations don't give you too much trouble, but I really think that these changes are necessary for full satisfaction among our members.
evp	alternative	noun	1	B2	one of two or more things that you can choose between	It's a low-fat alternative to butter.	Another alternative is to go up the mountain by chairlifts or funicular-railway.
evp	alternative	adjective	1	B2	An alternative plan, method, etc. is one that you can use if you do not want to use another one.	We can make alternative arrangements if necessary.	[The new direct bus service is an alternative way of getting to Lampton].
evp	alternative	adjective	2	B2	different from what is usual or traditional	alternative fuels	I wonder if you've ever heard of "alternative music"?
evp	alternatively	adverb	1	B2	used to suggest another possibility	We could go to the Indian restaurant, or alternatively, we could try that new Italian place.	Alternatively, I suggest that you should invite a famous writer.
evp	altogether	adverb	1	B1	in total	There were twenty people there altogether.	They cost 1700 baht altogether.
evp	altogether	adverb	2	B2	completely	She wrote less and less often, and eventually she stopped altogether.	I don't altogether agree with this fact.
evp	altogether	adverb	3	B2	when you consider everything	Altogether, I'd say the party was a great success.	Altogether, I believe that the most cruel creature on earth is the human being.
evp	aluminum	noun	1	B2	a light, silver-colored metal used for making containers, cooking equipment and aircraft parts	Cover the fish with aluminum foil and bake.	Some people think that associations like Greenpeace can do something, they also try to recycle old things like batteries, aluminum, bottles or to forbid some drivers to go with their car in some areas.
evp	always	adverb	1	A1	every time, or at all times	I always walk to work.	I always try to do my best, because I want to be a good student.
evp	always	adverb	2	A2	at all times in the past	We've always lived here.	I always wanted a phone with mp3 and bluetooth.
evp	always	adverb	3	A2	forever	I'll always remember you.	That was the best weekend of my life. I'll always remember it.
evp	always	adverb	4	B1	used to suggest something	You can always stay with us if you miss your train.	Watching them painting is better than seeing their art in any museum, and you can always do some sightseeing through our historical ruins, our mountains or villages.
evp	always	adverb	5	B2	again and again, often in an annoying way	He's always losing his keys.	I am always trying to convince my friend Maria of these dangers.
evp	a.m.	adverb	1	A1	used to refer to a time between twelve o'clock at night and twelve o'clock in the middle of the day	We're open between 9 a.m. and 5 p.m. daily.	The class starts at 10:00 a.m. and it finishs at 11:00 a.m. It's one hour.
evp	amateur	adjective	1	C1	doing something as a hobby and not as your job	an amateur photographer	Finally I would like to mention that I feel very confident in front of cameras, since I am an amateur actor.
evp	amateur	noun	1	C1	someone who does something as a hobby and not as their job	This tennis tournament is open to both amateurs and professionals.	What I want to explain is that if an amateur sees a professional swimmer winning while wearing our equipment, he is surely going to think that our products helped him succeed, so the amateur is going to buy our equipment too.
evp	amateur	noun	2	C1	someone who is not good at what they do	I won't be giving them any more work - they're a bunch of amateurs.	I admit that I was an amateur, which is why I did not try to do any special "tricks" to impress all those who were watching me.
evp	amazed	adjective	1	B1	extremely surprised	She was amazed at how calm she felt after the accident.	Dear David Beckham, How are you? I was amazed to find your letter in my mail box.
evp	amazement	noun	1	B2	extreme surprise	She stared in amazement.	Then, to her amazement, she saw him with another girl.
evp	amazing	adjective	1	A2	very good or impressive in some way	This wine is really amazing.	I bought a new cell phone and it is amazing.
evp	amazing	adjective	2	B1	extremely surprising	It's amazing to think that the managing director is only 23.	Dear Richard, It's amazing you didn't forget my birthday.
evp	amazingly	adverb	1	B1	in an amazing way	The food was amazingly good.	Amazingly, he didn't come back until midnight.
evp	ambassador	noun	1	B2	the main official sent by a government of a country to represent it in another country	Britain's ambassador in Moscow has refused to comment.	On the first floor is the "star'' of the museum: a splendid grand piano built in 1893, which was offered by the Queen to the French ambassador in 1895.
evp	ambiguity	noun	1	C2	when something has more than one possible meaning	Legal documents must be free of ambiguity.	Lastly, there is the ambiguity of her final decision.
evp	ambiguous	adjective	1	C2	having more than one possible meaning	an ambiguous statement	It is hard to choose the right option as the advice given often seems ambiguous.
evp	ambition	noun	1	B1	something you want to achieve	His ambition is to run his own business.	Learning English is one of my ambitions.
evp	ambition	noun	2	B2	a strong feeling that you want to be successful or powerful	My sister always had more ambition than I did.	Love, hate, ambition and fear of losing are the main subjects for Orson Well[e]s and Tim Burton, the directors of these two films]
evp	ambitious	adjective	1	B2	wanting to be successful or powerful	an ambitious young lawyer	I chose Omar because I find him very talented and ambitious.
evp	ambitious	adjective	2	B2	If a plan or idea is ambitious, it will need a lot of work and will be difficult to achieve.	This is our most ambitious project so far.	If we accomplish these ambitious plans, we can even run for the 2006 Winter Olympic Games.
evp	ambulance	noun	1	B1	a special vehicle used to take ill or injured people to the hospital	I called for an ambulance.	She called for an ambulance which came at once.
evp	amend	verb	1	C2	to slightly change the words of a document	The contract has now been amended.	The text could be amended.
evp	amendment	noun	1	C1	a change in the words of a document, or the process of doing this	to make an amendment to the human rights law	Its really unfair of him as there should be some amendments in this law for people who are physically challenged.
evp	amount	noun	1	B1	how much there is of something	They didn't deliver the right amount of sand.	You'll also be able to go out to pubs or night clubs, and you'll spend a very small amount of money.
evp	ample	adjective	1	C1	enough, or more than enough	She's had ample time to get the work done.	There will be three coffee machines on each floor which should provide ample coffee for everyone.
evp	amuse	verb	1	B2	to make someone laugh or smile	The video clips on that website always amuse me.	"The Blind Owl" - his masterpiece - is a surrealistic novella which has amused critics and ordinary readers for years.
evp	amuse	verb	2	B2	to keep someone interested and help them to have an enjoyable time	I bought a book of crosswords to amuse myself while I was on the train.	Another idea is to call a well-known band to amuse all the young people.
evp	amused	adjective	1	B2	showing that you think something is funny	an amused smile	When the taxi arrived, he was so amused about the news that an old woman took it.
evp	amused	adjective	2	B2	to keep someone interested and help them to have an enjoyable time	How do you keep an 8-year-old boy amused?	I could keep them amused with my funny stories.
evp	amusement	noun	1	B2	the feeling that you have when something makes you smile or laugh	She looked at him with great amusement.	Each made the other one laugh. We had great fun. [It was a day with so much amusement, with my best friend John.
evp	amusement	noun	2	B2	an enjoyable way of spending your time	I play the piano, but just for my own amusement.	In particular, computer games are a kind of amusement, for them and for everyone.
evp	amusing	adjective	1	B1	funny or entertaining	an amusing story/person/situation	Our teacher is really amusing, he makes people laugh all the time.
evp	analogous	adjective	1	C2	similar in some ways	The stock market recorded a 0.4% annual increase that was roughly analogous to results in the late 1960s.	Raising the price of petroleum will be analogous to providing hurdles for better communication and thus the progress.
evp	analogy	noun	1	C2	a comparison that shows how two things are similar	He used the analogy of the mind, which has no form and is invisible, being like the sky.	The analogy bears striking similarities to the relationship of dependency between humans and their construct, the machines.
evp	analysis	noun	1	B2	the process of analyzing something	Chemical analysis revealed a high content of copper.	I would not do my school projects without using a computer, because I have to do some statistical analysis.
evp	analyst	noun	1	B2	someone whose job is to study or examine something in detail	a financial/political/systems analyst	As you know I got promotion as a project analyst recently.
evp	analytical	adjective	1	C1	examining the details of something carefully, in order to understand or explain it	analytical skills	Moreover, employers nowadays are seeking the team-working, problem-solving and analytical skills needed for their company.
evp	analyze	verb	1	B2	to examine the details of something carefully, in order to understand or explain it	Researchers analyzed purchases made by 6300 households.	Almost all the companies use computers in order to collect and to analyze data about their activities or their customers.
evp	ancestor	noun	1	B2	a relative who lived a long time ago	My ancestors came from Ireland.	We are living in a technologically advanced world where we are surrounded by all sorts of devices, which would seem fantastic to our ancestors.
evp	anchor	noun	1	C2	a heavy, metal object that is dropped into water to stop a boat from moving	We dropped anchor in a quiet bay and swam.	Meanwhile, the captain had set the anchor.
evp	anchor	noun	2	C2	someone or something that gives support when needed	She was my anchor when things were difficult for me.	Yet she had still been fond of his picture, he was her anchor.
evp	anchor	noun	3	C2	the person who reports the news and manages reports by others on a television or radio program	She was interviewed by the anchor of the CBS Evening News.	This new form of expression is already shaping our lives, as recently seen in the U.S., where a major news anchor was fined due to findings published in a blog.
evp	anchor	verb	1	C2	to stop a boat from moving by dropping a heavy metal object into the water		Every night we used to anchor i] different bays to spend the night.
evp	anchor	verb	2	C2	to make something or someone stay in one position by fastening them firmly	We anchored ourselves to the rocks with a rope.	It was stronger, much more intense than text or video footage could ever be, for this unmoving image, having been anchored in space and time, solidified its content so as to have an almost physical impact on the viewer.
evp	ancient	adjective	1	B1	from a long time ago	ancient Greece/Rome/Egypt	I would recommend you to visit Rome, because you shouldn't miss seeing the huge monuments, the ancient Roman ruins and the Vatican.
evp	angel	noun	1	B1	a spiritual creature in stories or some religions, usually represented as a human with wings	According to the Bible, an angel told Mary that she would have God's son, Jesus.	I like to wear a top with a picture of an angel that my mother bought for me as my birthday present.
evp	anger	noun	1	B2	a strong feeling against someone who has behaved badly, making you want to shout at them or hurt them	I think he feels a lot of anger towards his father who treated him very badly as a child.	Trisha, who had invited us there, looked like she was about to explode with anger or burst into tears.
evp	angle	noun	1	C1	the space between two lines or surfaces at the point at which they touch each other, measured in degrees	an angle of 90 degrees	Carriers are to be requested to stick to the regulations which set the approach and takeoff angles at no less than 45 degrees.
evp	angle	noun	2	C1	not horizontal or vertical, but sloping	The picture was hanging at an angle, so I straightened it.	I needed to tilt the unit at an angle for it to work.
evp	angle	noun	3	C1	the direction from which you look at something	This is the same building photographed from different angles.	It is possible to see all the paintings from different angles. You can also zoom in and out.
evp	angle	noun	4	C1	the way you think about a situation	Try looking at the problem from another angle.	To be a child is to see the world from a different angle.
evp	angrily	adverb	1	B1	in an angry way	"Don't do that!" she shouted angrily.	"How dare she do that to me?" I thought, angrily.
evp	angry	adjective	1	A2	having a strong feeling against someone who has behaved badly, making you want to shout at them or hurt them	He's really angry at/with me for upsetting Sophie.	Dear Ally, I'm so sorry you couldn't come to my birthday party, but don't worry, I'm not angry with you.
evp	animal	noun	1	A1	something that lives and moves but is not a human, bird, fish or insect	wild/domestic animals	I like flowers and baby animals.
evp	animal	noun	2	B2	anything that lives and moves, including people, birds, etc.	Are humans the only animals to use language?	I think the human is an animal that wants to do amusing things.
evp	animated	adjective	1	B1	An animated film is one in which drawings and models seem to move.	He makes animated films.	It's a funny animated film about a superhero family.
evp	animated	adjective	2	C2	showing a lot of interest and excitement	an animated conversation	Whether that's true or not is a matter of controversy and animated discussion.
evp	animation	noun	1	B1	an animated film, or the process of making animated films	a course in computer animation	It's a comedy animation about penguins.
evp	ankle	noun	1	B1	the joint between the foot and the leg, or the thin part of the leg just above the foot	I fell over and sprained/twisted my ankle.	I have broken my ankle and I need to stay in bed during the day.
evp	anniversary	noun	1	B1	the day on which an important event happened in a previous year	We always celebrate our wedding anniversary with dinner at an expensive restaurant.	She and her husband are touring Europe for a second honeymoon, on the 10th anniversary of their marriage.
evp	announce	verb	1	B1	to tell people about something officially or with force or confidence	The Prime Minister has just announced that public spending will be increased next year.	[The] TV has just announced a bus-drivers strike for tomorrow morning.
evp	announcement	noun	1	B1	something that someone says officially, giving information about something	The President made an unexpected announcement this morning.	I heard about this club in a radio announcement.
evp	annoy	verb	1	B1	to make someone angry	Tim really annoyed me in the meeting this morning.	My bed makes a loud noise when I lie down on it. It annoys me.
evp	annoyance	noun	1	C1	the feeling of being annoyed	He kept losing his keys, much to the annoyance of his wife.	This caused a lot of annoyance, so I suggest next year you make some kind of arrangement for booking the places o] the computer room in advance.
evp	annoyed	adjective	1	B1	angry	I was so annoyed with him for turning up late.	I was a bit annoyed when I found out] but it's all right.
evp	annoying	adjective	1	B1	making you feel annoyed	It's really annoying when a train is late and there's no explanation.	Do you like going shopping with your mom? They are sometimes annoying, aren't they?
evp	annual	adjective	1	B1	happening once every year, or relating to a period of one year	an annual event/visit/holiday	I never miss the annual sale at the department store near my place.
evp	annually	adverb	1	B2	once every year	Your salary will be reviewed annually.	Lately I've decided to pick up my old hobby, since I have kept paying for my amateur-radio permit annually.
evp	anonymous	adjective	1	C2	not giving a name	an anonymous phone call/letter	Because the internet does provide the possibility of staying anonymous, it is very hard to find the people who use it for illegal or criminal actions.
evp	answer	noun	1	A1	what you say or write back to someone who has asked you a question or spoken to you	I asked him if he was going but I didn't hear his answer.	Please, give me an answer.
evp	answer	noun	2	A2	information given as a reply to a question in a test, exercise, competition, etc.	Did you get the answer to Question 6?	We had to fill in our questionnaires and discuss the answers in our class.
evp	answer	noun	3	A2	when someone answers the door or telephone	I've just rung him but there was no answer.	I called her, but there was no answer.
evp	answer	noun	4	B1	a way of solving a problem	It's a difficult situation and I don't know what the answer is.	Should wild animals be kept in cages, and denied their freedom so that we can have the pleasure of watching them in zoos? Well, there's no simple answer to that question.
evp	answer	verb	1	A1	to speak or write back to someone who has asked you a question	You haven't answered my question.	My teacher gives me questions and I have to answer.
evp	answer	verb	2	A2	to open the door to someone or pick up the telephone	Could someone answer the phone?	I phone you, but you don't answer!
evp	answer	verb	3	B1	to write or say something as a reply to a question in a test, exercise, competition, etc.	I couldn't answer the last three questions.	That was to be my first interview, and I had never before answered a test of personality so I felt insecure.
evp	ant	noun	1	B1	a small, black or red insect that lives in groups on the ground	There were ants crawling all over the ground.	I have known Larry since I was five years old and he couldn't hurt an ant, I am sure about it.
evp	antibiotic	noun	1	C2	a medicine which cures infections by destroying harmful bacteria	He is on antibiotics for an ear infection.	Nevertheless, for all the side effects they may have, for all the unpleasantness of having a needle stuck in your arm or a spoonful of foul-tasting liquid stuck in your mouth, antibiotics and vaccines remain the greatest discovery in the history of the world.
evp	anticipate	verb	1	C1	to expect something, or to prepare for something before it happens	to anticipate a problem	Moreover, it is anticipated that the percentage of the group will rise further in 2010.
evp	anticipation	noun	1	C2	when you are waiting for something to happen, usually with excitement	The children were breathless with anticipation.	Yet, what I remember and think is going to stay with me for the rest of my life is that wonderful atmosphere of a fairy tale which has come true, that feeling of excitement and anticipation of something marvelous about to happen.
evp	anticipation	noun	2	C2	expecting something to happen or in preparation for something happening	She's even decorated the spare room in anticipation of your visit.	This has sometimes resulted in the comic phenomenon of people traveling to a distant country, in anticipation of encountering strange and original lifestyles, only to come across situations not very different from the one they have left in their own countries.
evp	antique	noun	1	B1	an object that is old, and often rare or beautiful	an antique shop	The market opens every Wednesday and you can find a lot of antiques, very interesting people who sell and buy things and delicious food.
evp	antique	adjective	1	B1	old and often rare or beautiful	antique furniture	There's a nice, cosy lobby, with antique furniture and a fireplace.
evp	antisocial	adjective	1	C1	antisocial behavior harms society and upsets the people around you	Some critics argued that movies can cause antisocial behavior.	
evp	antisocial	adjective	2	C1	An antisocial person does not like being with other people.	I hope they won't think I'm antisocial if I don't go to the party.	Technology has developed so much that it has made us very antisocial.
evp	anxiety	noun	1	B2	the feeling of being very worried	Children normally feel a lot of anxiety about their first day at school.	On the other hand, if we consider this statement in general, we could infer that the teenage years are quite a good time in a person's life, as there is no stress or anxiety that is usually encountered later on in life.
evp	anxious	adjective	1	B1	worried and nervous	He's very anxious about his exams.	I began my courses on Tuesday and I was a little bit anxious but everything was all right.
evp	anxious	adjective	2	B2	wanting to do something or wanting something to happen	I'm anxious to hear her news.	I am very anxious for you to tell me what type of competition you managed to win.
evp	anxiously	adverb	1	B2	in an anxious way	We waited anxiously by the phone.	I am waiting for your reply anxiously.
evp	any	adverb	1	B1	used in questions and negatives to emphasize a comparative adjective or adverb	Do you feel any better?	I couldn't wait any longer - I had to see Sami.
evp	anyhow	adverb	1	B2	despite that	He hates carrots but he ate them anyhow.	It wasn't a great support, but anyhow I consider my choice to be the best I could have made]
evp	anyhow	adverb	2	B2	used when you are returning to an earlier subject	Anyhow, as I said, I'll be away next week.	After that we drove for about one hour before we had to take a lunch break. It was still very hot when we continued our trip and we had to stop once more. Anyhow, we got to Munich the same day, where we stayed for two days.
evp	anyhow	adverb	3	B2	used to give a more important reason for something that you are saying	I don't need a car and I can't afford one anyhow.	We both thought that it was a good idea to have that stop-over at your place as it was on our route to Norway anyhow.
evp	anyhow	adverb	4	C1	used when you want to slightly change something that you have just said	Boys aren't horrible - not all of them anyhow!	
evp	anymore	adverb	1	A2	If you do not do something or something does not happen anymore, you have stopped doing it or it does not now happen.	This shirt doesn't fit me anymore - would you like it?	I want to sell my radio. I don't use it anymore because I'm going to go to America next week.
evp	anyway	adverb	1	A2	despite that	Her parents were opposed to her quitting school, but she did it anyway.	Dear Jo, You can call me for this information but I will write it here anyway.
evp	anyway	adverb	2	A2	used when you are returning to an earlier subject or changing the subject	Anyway, I'll be away next week.	I hope everything will be O.K... anyway you have my phone number.
evp	anyway	adverb	3	B1	used to give a more important reason for something that you are saying	I don't have time to go and anyway it's too expensive.	I'm going to buy a new bed, because the old one has broken, and anyway it wasn't very comfortable.
evp	anywhere	adverb	1	A2	in or to any place	Did you go anywhere interesting this summer?	I like that bicycle because I can go anywhere with it without anyone's help.
evp	anywhere	adverb	2	A2	used in questions and negatives to mean "a place"	Is there anywhere in particular you wanted to go to eat tonight?	Do you know anywhere interesting and how can I get there?
evp	anywhere	adverb	3	B2	to not make any progress	I tried discussing the problem with her but I didn't get anywhere.	If we think about making an effort and changing our daily routine at once, we will never get anywhere because a drastic change usually does not last.
evp	anywhere	adverb	4	C1	used in questions and negatives to mean "close to being or doing something"	The house isn't anywhere near ready.	We could not have gone anywhere near 5000 miles because all our minibuses were broken down - we even stayed in one place for 8 days.
evp	apartment	noun	1	A2	a set of rooms for living in, especially on one floor of a building	a one-/two-/three-bedroom apartment	Please come to my apartment at 4:00.
evp	apartment building	noun	1	A2	a building containing apartments	We live on the third floor of that apartment building.	
evp	apologetic	adjective	1	C2	showing or saying that you are sorry about something	an apologetic smile	I am deeply apologetic if my letter troubled anybody or was too boring to read, but I had to say my opinion out loud.
evp	apologize	verb	1	B1	to tell someone that you are sorry about something you have done	I must apologize to Isobel for my behavior.	This letter is to inform you that I will not be able to attend tomorrow's class due to medical issues. I apologize for the short notice.
evp	apology	noun	1	B1	something you say or write to say that you are sorry about something you have done	I have an apology to make to you - I'm afraid I opened your letter by mistake.	Hi Zita, Please accept my apology for this belated letter which you're holding in your hands.
evp	apostrophe	noun	1	B2	the punctuation mark ' which shows when a letter or a number has been left out, or is used before or after "s" to show possession	I'm Ian.	
evp	appalling	adjective	1	C2	awful, or shocking and very unpleasant or causing someone to feel upset	The animals were being kept in appalling conditions.	When Susan got the news of his illness all her joy turned into an appalling despair, and she felt she would die too.
evp	apparent	adjective	1	B2	obvious or easy to notice	Her unhappiness was apparent to everyone.	This was my Dad, always doing weird things for no apparent reason.
evp	apparent	adjective	2	C1	seeming to exist or be true	I was a little surprised by her apparent lack of interest.	Your company staff is well known among our club members for its quality but the only apparent flaw we can detect is that they only speak English.
evp	apparently	adverb	1	B2	used to say you have read or been told something although you are not certain it is true	Apparently it's going to rain today.	Apparently he was planning to visit me and surprise me for my birthday, which was the following day.
evp	apparently	adverb	2	B2	used to say that something seems to be true, although it is not certain	There were two apparently unrelated deaths.	People found it important and still do but apparently, today, we don't appreciate reading as much as our ancestors.
evp	appeal	noun	1	B2	the quality in someone or something that makes them attractive or interesting	Eating out has lost much of its appeal.	In my opinion, computer games are so popular because the games have developed their graphics and they have more appeal to youngsters.
evp	appeal	noun	2	C2	a formal or urgent request, especially for money or help in an emergency	They're launching an appeal to raise money for earthquake victims.	I would suggest that the local authorities with the support of the community and companies start an appeal, to raise money to keep the St. Mary's running.
evp	appeal	verb	1	B2	to attract or interest someone	Cycling has never really appealed to me.	In addition, books appeal to our imagination.
evp	appeal	verb	2	C1	to make a serious or formal request, especially for money or help	They're appealing for clothes and blankets to send to the devastated region.	In fact so much did he like English that he was one of the first to appeal for a place in the "Erasmus," a scheme allowing students to study in foreign countries of their choice.
evp	appear	verb	1	B1	to start to be seen	He suddenly appeared in the doorway.	Suddenly the singer of the band appeared.
evp	appear	verb	2	B1	to perform in a movie, play, etc.	She appears briefly in the new James Bond movie.	What I like the most is that I'm going to appear on T.V.
evp	appear	verb	3	B1	to seem	He appeared calm and relaxed.	But, the reality is, that life appears very short to me. My first impression in my new class was that the teacher was bad and too serious, but it appears that he is very nice. (1094174; Preliminary English Test; Switzerland; B1 THRESHOLD; 2002; French; Pass)
evp	appear	verb	4	B2	used to say that something seems to be true	It appears that he had asked someone to drive him home from the party.	It appears that people are more aware about clothes and also work.
evp	appear	verb	5	B2	to start to exist or become available	Laptop computers first appeared in the 1980s.	In almost every city fast-food restaurants have appeared, which have a big group of fans.
evp	appear	verb	6	C1	used to say that something seems to be true	It would appear that nobody on board the aircraft actually had a licence to fly it.	It would appear that students are not satisfied with the hours and days offered by the Club.
evp	appearance	noun	1	B1	the way a person or thing looks to other people	The buildings are very similar in appearance.	I usually buy fashionable clothes, because I think your appearance is really important.
evp	appearance	noun	2	B2	when someone appears in public, on television, in a film, etc.	It was his first appearance on television/television appearance as president.	You probably know him, because he made an appearance i] the film "Bad Boys."
evp	appearance	noun	3	B2	when something starts to exist or becomes available	The appearance of new products on the market has increased competition.	The appearance of the car has facilitated our lives.
evp	appetite	noun	1	C1	the feeling that you want to eat	a good/healthy appetite	The tasteless food spoiled our appetite.
evp	appetite	noun	2	C2	when you want something very much	He has a real appetite for adventure.	It does not occur to him that Jack has degenerated into blood-lust and is driven by hatred and an appetite for power.
evp	applaud	verb	1	C1	to clap your hands to show that you have enjoyed a performance, talk, etc.	The audience applauded loudly.	Secondly, owing to a sudden shower, there was a short break during the dance display and the horse show, but eventually, we finished the display and the show successfully and people applauded.
evp	applaud	verb	2	C2	to approve of or admire something	Most people will surely applaud the decision.	I admire and applaud Stevens' integrity and dignity.
evp	applause	noun	1	C1	when people make a noise by clapping their hands to show they have enjoyed or approve of something	There was loud applause at the end of her speech.	Still the audience was very pleased, because they gave massive applause at the end.
evp	applause	noun	2	C2	when people clap	The crowd gave him a huge round of applause.	It was unbelievable, there was a round of applause and some people couldn't help crying.
evp	apple	noun	1	A1	a hard, round fruit that has a green or red skin and is white inside	to peel an apple	The place is in North Iraq. I like this place, because it has very nice weather, and there is nice fruit: dates, grapes, peaches, and apples.
evp	appliance	noun	1	C1	a piece of electrical equipment with a particular purpose in the home	home/household/kitchen appliances	The fair was well organized and structured into specific sections from clothing and sportswear to household appliances and electronic goods]
evp	application	noun	1	B1	an official request for something, usually in writing	a job/college application	After having filled in the application form, the master pilot took us on a short trip around the hangars showing the planes used for training.
evp	application	noun	2	B2	a piece of computer software designed for a particular purpose	Typical examples of software applications are spreadsheets, media players and database applications.	I am an experienced user of the Internet and know all application programs for Windows '95 (Word, Excel, PowerPoint, PinPoint etc.).
evp	application	noun	3	C2	a way in which something can be used for a particular purpose	This technology has many practical applications.	We have been working o] the growing of cells in zero-gravity environments, having in mind its possible application in outer space colonies, such as the International Space Station.
evp	apply	verb	1	B1	to request something, usually officially, especially by writing or sending in a form	By the time I saw the job advertised it was already too late to apply.	I applied for this course and went to my first lesson last week.
evp	apply	verb	2	B2	to relate to a particular person or situation	The same rules apply to everybody.	The same doesn't apply to a teenager who lives in illness and poverty and whose family and friends constantly mistreat him.
evp	apply	verb	3	C1	to use something in a particular situation	The same method can be applied to other situations.	Moreover, he can explain how theory is being applied in the field.
evp	apply	verb	4	C2	to work hard	If he doesn't apply himself, he'll never pass his exams.	Many previously unknown professions emerged, and people started to apply themselves to their jobs much more than before; the pursuit of money was initiated.
evp	appoint	verb	1	C1	to officially choose someone for a job	She was appointed by the governor.	He was appointed by the government as head of a newly established task force.
evp	appointment	noun	1	A2	a time you have arranged to meet someone or go somewhere	a dentist/doctor's appointment	My mother is taking me to a dentist appointment.
evp	appointment	noun	2	C2	when you officially choose someone for an important job, or the job itself	the appointment of three new teachers	His outstanding successful work on fowl vaccine was rewarded by his appointment to lecturer in veterinary microbiology and hygiene. Soon all vet students liked him very much.
evp	appreciate	verb	1	B2	to understand how good something is or how difficult it was	There's no point buying him expensive clothes - he doesn't appreciate them.	I am sure you will appreciate the food, even if the services is not so good.
evp	appreciate	verb	2	B2	used when you are politely requesting something	I would appreciate it if you could let me know in advance whether or not you will be coming.	I would really appreciate a positive answer from your side.
evp	appreciate	verb	3	B2	used when you are thanking someone or showing that you are grateful	Thanks for all the help you gave us last weekend. We really appreciate it.	Thanks for your congratulations. I really appreciate it.
evp	appreciate	verb	4	C2	to understand something about a situation, especially that it is complicated or difficult	I appreciate that it is a difficult decision for you to make.	Given the size of the house and the rather delicate nature of some of the furniture pieces, I appreciate that it may have been somewhat of a challenge.
evp	appreciation	noun	1	B2	when you understand how good or how difficult something is	To show our appreciation for all your help, we bought you a little gift.	To show our appreciation, we would also like to invite you to dinner afterwards at the Red Baron.
evp	approach	verb	1	B2	to come close in distance or time	The train was approaching the station.	I decided to approach the house since the situation looked very strange for me.
evp	approach	verb	2	B2	to deal with something	I'm not sure how to approach the problem.	This is the right way to approach the issue.
evp	approach	noun	1	B2	a way of doing something	In Sweden they have a different approach to the problem.	This will show the contrast in teaching methods, different approaches to students and the techniques used by different teachers.
evp	approach	noun	2	B2	when something or someone gets nearer in distance or time	The siren signaled the approach of an ambulance.	
evp	appropriate	adjective	1	B2	suitable or right for a particular situation or occasion	Is this film appropriate for small children?	I will explain why I am an appropriate person for this job.
evp	appropriately	adverb	1	B2	in a way that is appropriate	She didn't think we were appropriately dressed for a wedding.	I enjoyed reading it and I think it appropriately describes the atmosphere of that lovely town.
evp	approval	noun	1	B2	when you have a positive opinion of someone or something	He showed his approval by smiling broadly.	I hope this meets with your approval and I am looking forward to hearing from you as soon as possible.
evp	approval	noun	2	B2	official permission	We need approval for the project to move ahead.	Besides the questionable approval given by governmental authorities, the situation might be useful to us.
evp	approve	verb	1	B1	to allow or officially agree to something	The town has approved plans for a new shopping center.	"Congratulation[s], your scholarship to the UK is approved."
evp	approve	verb	2	B2	to think that something is good or right	She doesn't approve of my friends.	Woods didn't approve of the government's attitude to them.
evp	approximate	adjective	1	B2	not completely accurate but close	Their approximate arrival time is 10:30.	The approximate figure is about 5000 people.
evp	approximately	adverb	1	B1	close to a particular number or time although not exactly that number or time	The job will take approximately two weeks, and cost around $2000.	From the airport of Larnaka you need approximately forty-five minutes by taxi, to Agia Napa.
evp	April	noun	1	A1	the fourth month of the year, after March and before May	the 20th of April/April 20(th)	The class is on the second of April and it will be three hours long.
evp	arbitrary	adjective	1	C2	not based on a system or principles and often seeming unfair	an arbitrary decision	To start with, this arbitrary act is, as far as I am concerned, one of the worst aggressions to nature, as an area of about two miles of greenery will have to be completely destroyed to give a place to an absurd parking garage.
evp	arch	noun	1	C2	a curved structure that usually supports something, for example a bridge or wall	Passing through the arch, you enter an open courtyard.	She could have taken a short cut, but she chose this long and rather uncomfortable way deliberately, as it was leading past the old arch where a strange man used to play a violin.
evp	arch	verb	1	C2	to be a curved shape or make something become a curved shape	The bridge arched over the river.	Suddenly a flash arched across the sky, followed by an echoing rumble.
evp	archaeologist	noun	1	C1	someone who studies ancient cultures by looking for and examining their buildings, tools, and other objects	Archaeologists believe the remains date back to the 5th century.	It includes articles from prominent journalists, scientists, archaeologists and other experts on Greek civilisation.
evp	archaeology	noun	1	C1	the study of ancient cultures by looking for and examining their buildings, tools, and other objects	He studied archaeology in college.	But I have to admit that there could be more presentations to cover areas like archaeology, language, etc.
evp	architect	noun	1	B1	someone whose job is to design buildings	Who is the architect who designed this building?	He knew that I wanted to be an architect.
evp	architecture	noun	1	B1	the design and style of buildings	Roman architecture	There are beautiful places like Merarejonban, which is outstanding in its architecture.
evp	architecture	noun	2	B1	the skill of designing buildings	He studied architecture.	I want to study architecture in the U.K. but English is a problem, so I need spend a lot of time learning it.
evp	area	noun	1	A2	a region of a country or city	All areas of the country will have some rain tonight.	It's a tourist area.
evp	area	noun	2	B1	a part of a building or piece of land used for a particular purpose	a play/picnic area	I'm staying in a very big hotel; it has a swimming pool, a golf area, gardens, and also a children['s] area.
evp	area	noun	3	B2	a part of a subject or activity	Marketing is Paul's area.	I am a 30-year-old Swedish male with a diploma in gardening. I have 6 years experience of the area since I have been employed by a Swedish fruit supplier.
evp	argue	verb	1	B1	to speak angrily to someone, telling them that you disagree with them	My parents are always arguing.	Peter told her his parents had argued and he came with his mother to London.
evp	argue	verb	2	B2	to give reasons to support or oppose an idea, action, etc.	Several people argued in favor of creating bike lanes on the avenue.	It is often argued that family life is not important.
evp	argument	noun	1	B1	an angry discussion with someone in which you both disagree	The children had an argument about/over what game to play.	I wrote a song last week. It's about my boyfriend and an argument he had with his parents about our relationship.
evp	argument	noun	2	B2	a reason or reasons why you support or oppose an idea, action, etc.	There are many arguments for and against nuclear energy.	One final argument for the use of the bicycle is that bicycles don't create pollution.
evp	arid	adjective	1	C2	very dry and without enough rain for plants	an arid region/climate	The first thing I have noticed, during my arrival, was the impressive number of trees seen even from the plane windows. That was a big surprise for someone growing up in such an arid country as Greece.
evp	arise	verb	1	C1	If a problem arises, it starts to happen.	The whole problem arose from a lack of communication.	Although the place was very good, a number of problems arose during our visit.
evp	arm	noun	1	A1	the long part at each side of the human body, ending in a hand	My arms ache from carrying this bag.	I've a Tennis racket that I bought a year ago. I want to sell it because I've broken my arm.
evp	arm	noun	2	C2	the part of a chair where your arm rests	The chair didn't have any arms.	It appears to me that the leather covering the left arm of the sofa has been pierced with some sharp object.
evp	arm	noun	3	C2	with your arm gently supporting or being supported by someone else's arm	They walked through the park, arm in arm.	We often walked around the playground arm in arm.
evp	arm	noun	4	C2	to not allow someone to become too friendly with you	I always had the feeling she was keeping me at arm's length.	At first she keeps them at arm's length, but Mr. Emerson is direct and advises Lucy to behave in a more natural way instead of doing what some old ladies say.
evp	armchair	noun	1	A2	a comfortable chair with sides that support your arms	She sat in an armchair by the fire, reading a newspaper.	I want to sell my armchair and my television.
evp	armed	adjective	1	B2	using or carrying weapons	an armed robbery	I could clearly understand that the two armed men would catch us within a few minutes.
evp	armed	adjective	2	C2	carrying or knowing something that will be useful	I like to go to a meeting armed with the relevant facts.	She is not a young executive woman armed with a portable computer and three telephones.
evp	around	adverb	1	A2	to or in different parts of a place	I'm going to fly to Peru and travel around for six weeks.	Come and visit, I'll show you around.
evp	around	adverb	2	B1	in a circle or with circular movement	She passed a plate of biscuits around.	Hello, everybody. Please gather around.
evp	around	adverb	3	B1	to the opposite direction	Jonny turned around and looked at her.	As the concert finished, I heard someone call my name. I turned around.
evp	around	adverb	4	B2	If someone is around, they are present in a place.	Will you be around next week?	It was dark and not a soul was around.
evp	around	adverb	5	C2	present or available	Cell phones have been around for years now.	Major sports competitions have been around for the better part of 2500 years, ever since the original Olympic Games were held in ancient Greece.
evp	arouse	verb	1	C2	to make someone have a particular feeling or reaction	It's a subject which has aroused a lot of interest.	There was something about her that had aroused my interest.
evp	arrange	verb	1	B1	to make the necessary plans and preparations for something to happen	We've arranged a meeting for Wednesday.	Dear Friends, It's a fantastic idea to come to my country for the holidays; we could arrange to meet somewhere.
evp	arrange	verb	2	B2	to put objects in a particular order or position	She arranged her birthday cards along the shelf.	Before the pop concert started] I arranged the seats and carried some musical instruments.
evp	arrangement	noun	1	B1	plans for how something will happen	They'd made all the arrangements for the party.	I'll make all the arrangements.
evp	arrangement	noun	2	B2	an agreement between two people or groups	We had an arrangement that he would clean the house and I would cook.	I didn't know if you would be in the house or not so you need to contact him for a new arrangement on this telephone number 333-30.30.
evp	arrangement	noun	3	B2	a group of objects in a particular order or position	a flower arrangement	Dear Mrs. Anderson, I have learned from a friend that your club gives advanced courses in flower arrangement.
evp	arrest	verb	1	B1	If the police arrest someone, they take them away to ask them about a crime which they might have committed.	She was arrested for drinking and driving.	To my horror, they arrested me.
evp	arrest	noun	1	B2	when the police take someone away to ask them about a crime which they might have committed	Police made twenty arrests at yesterday's demonstration.	When I came around, Mr. Smith was under arrest and fortunately, things finished well for me.
evp	arrival	noun	1	B1	when someone or something arrives somewhere	Hundreds gathered to await the boxer's arrival at the airport.	Can you confirm your arrival time next week?
evp	arrival	noun	2	C1	a new thing or person that has arrived	Two teachers were there to greet the new arrivals.	Secondly, a barbecue would be a good thing to do on the 1st of September, to welcome the new arrivals.
evp	arrival	noun	3	C2	when something new is discovered or created or becomes available	The arrival of the railroad changed the western US.	With the arrival of capitalism, the mass-production of garments inherent to this system has raised the issue of whether what people wear reflects their personality.
evp	arrive	verb	1	A2	to reach a place, especially at the end of a journey	What time does your train arrive?	I'm arriving at four o'clock.
evp	arrive	verb	2	C2	to make a decision about something after a lot of thought	We didn't arrive at any firm conclusions.	[This is something very important which should be discussed... We may arrive at a conclusion.
evp	arrogant	adjective	1	B2	believing that you are better or more important than other people	I found him arrogant and rude.	Chubby, arrogant and filthy were the words that described him best. Every time they met, a bitter feeling of hatred bloomed in her throat.
evp	arrow	noun	1	B2	a symbol used on a sign, on a computer, etc. to show direction	I followed the arrows to the parking lot.	I followed its arrow and believe it or not I found mom!
evp	arrow	noun	2	B2	a weapon that is like a long, thin stick with a sharp point at one end and often feathers at the other, shot from a bow	Robin Hood asked to be buried where his arrow landed.	The museum has many old axes, crossbows, bows and arrows.
evp	art	noun	1	A2	the making or study of paintings, drawings, etc. or the objects created	modern art	The new art class after school is on Wednesday.
evp	art	noun	2	B2	creative areas including painting, drama, dance, music, etc.	fine/decorative arts	You can enjoy both traditional and contemporary performing arts in Osaka.
evp	art	noun	3	C2	subjects, such as history, languages and philosophy, that are not scientific subjects	the School/College of Arts and Sciences	For Arts and Science graduates, gaining a degree meant better prospects.
evp	article	noun	1	B1	a piece of writing on a particular subject in a newspaper or magazine	There was an interesting article on climate change in the paper yesterday.	I read an article about this zoo in the newspaper.
evp	article	noun	2	B1	in grammar, used to mean the words "a," "an" and "the"	There's a definite article missing before the noun.	
evp	artificial	adjective	1	B2	not natural, but made by people	an artificial flower/lake	Zoos are artificial settings for animals.
evp	artificial	adjective	2	C2	not sincere	an artificial smile	Miss Bartlett probably comes from the poorer part of the family and that is why she always tries to show her unselfishness to Lucy but this is done in a very artificial and annoying way.
evp	artificial intelligence	noun	1	C2	the use of computer programs that can copy some qualities of the human mind, such as the ability to understand language and to learn from experience, or the study of how this can be done	A robot with true artificial intelligence hasn't been invented.	True artificial intelligence, one of the most terrifying dreams of man, is yet to be discovered, but we must handle it with great care if we don't want to suffer the consequences of a world in which machines start to think for us, this making our existence completely pointless.
evp	artificially	adverb	1	B2	in an artificial way	Most mushrooms sold in supermarkets have been grown artificially in manure.	Zoos are part of nature, despite the fact that they are created artificially.
evp	artist	noun	1	A2	someone who paints, draws or makes sculptures	Monet is one of my favorite artists.	You have to bring a pencil and paintings to copy by famous artists like Goya.
evp	artistic	adjective	1	B2	showing skill and imagination in creating things, especially in painting, drawing, etc.	Both children are very artistic.	If the museum is a place were they can say how they feel, or express it in an abstract or artistic way, they will start to like it.
evp	artistic	adjective	2	B2	relating to any form of art, including painting, literature, theater, music, etc.	the artistic director of the theater	That would be perfect to improve the artistic and cultural life of Turin.
evp	ashamed	adjective	1	B1	feeling guilty or embarrassed about something you have done	You've got nothing to be ashamed of.	He felt very ashamed and didn't know what to do.
evp	ashamed	adjective	2	B2	to be angry and disappointed with a family member or friend because they have behaved badly	My brother was so rude to Jane - I was ashamed of him.	I was very ashamed of them. [They] came from my own country.
evp	aside	adverb	1	B2	on or to one side	Stand aside, please, and let these people pass.	I saw an old man slowly pull it aside and peep out, looking at the street with his eyes wide open.
evp	aside	adverb	2	B2	If you put or set something aside, you do not use it now, but keep it to use later.	We've put some money aside for our vacation.	I had put some money aside for a month, thinking about the discount.
evp	aside	adverb	3	B2	except for	This document needs finishing, but aside from that I think everything is done.	Secondly, it is unfair to say the other performers were second-rate aside from the Torrents, since they all sang and played very well.
evp	ask	verb	1	A1	to say a question to someone which you want them to answer	She asked me a question.	You asked me about a day at college.
evp	ask	verb	2	A2	to invite someone to do something	I've asked David to the party.	Thank you for asking me to your wedding.
evp	ask	verb	3	B1	to say something to someone because you want them to do something	They've asked me to look after their dog while they're away.	I want to apologize for not going to your class tomorrow, it's not that I don't want to go but my mother asked me to take care of my sister because she is sick and my parents have to work.
evp	ask	verb	4	B1	to say something to someone because you want them to give you something	He's asked for a bike for his birthday.	I can ask my parents for a stereo for Christmas, but I'm not sure if they will agree or not.
evp	ask	verb	5	B1	to say something to someone because you want to know if you can do something	Bruce asked if he could stay with us for a few days.	I am going to travel with my girlfriend Anna, so I am writing you this email to ask if you can lend me your bicycle for a week.
evp	ask	verb	6	B2	said when someone asks you about an experience that was very bad	"How was the meeting?" "Don't ask!"	Don't ask me how the concert was!
evp	ask	verb	7	B2	used to tell someone that you do not know the answer to a question and that you are surprised they have asked you	"So why would she leave such a good job?" "Don't ask me!"	
evp	ask	verb	8	C2	said when giving your opinion on something	If you ask me, he doesn't really care about his friends.	If you ask me, the things that matter in a job are the people you work with and feeling happy about the work you are doing.
evp	ask	verb	9	C2	to think about something carefully	You've got to ask yourself whether it's what you really want.	You have to ask yourself what life is worth in these situations.
evp	asleep	adjective	1	B1	sleeping or not awake	The children are asleep.	I prefer reading alone, when I'm in my bed before I fall asleep.
evp	asleep	adjective	2	C2	If part of your body is asleep, you cannot feel it.	My arm fell asleep.	
evp	asleep	adjective	3	C2	completely asleep	I looked into his room but he was still fast asleep.	Then she took a relaxing bath and 20 minutes later she was fast asleep.
evp	aspect	noun	1	B2	one part of a situation, problem, subject, etc.	Which aspects of the job do you most enjoy?	Every aspect of our daily life is influenced by technology.
evp	aspiration	noun	1	C2	something that you hope to achieve	I've never had any political aspirations.	A career should reflect a person's beliefs and aspirations, not their bank account.
evp	aspirin	noun	1	B1	a common drug used to reduce pain and fever	I took a couple of aspirin.	I took an aspirin quickly.
evp	assault	noun	1	C2	an attack	an assault on a police officer	Rapes, assaults, murders, burglaries, and robberies have been so frequent that a lot of technological progress has been made in order to prevent these from happening.
evp	assault	verb	1	C2	to attack someone violently	He was assaulted by a minor who cannot be named.	It is said that the boat was coming back to Boston's Port after having assaulted a royal ship and taken all its treasures when it came across this hurricane, Hurr[i]cane Hugo.
evp	assemble	verb	1	C2	to build something by joining parts together	Their furniture is easy to assemble.	The people of the nearby town suffer from unemployment and this makes the Town Hall dignitaries take a package of measures, for example, build a plant for assembling cars where thousands of people will be employed.
evp	assemble	verb	2	C2	to join other people somewhere to make a group, or to bring people together into a group	They assembled in the meeting room after lunch.	Soon a rescue team was assembled by experienced skiers and climbers, and started combing the mountain looking for the missing snowboarder.
evp	assembly	noun	1	C2	a group of people, such as a government, who meet to make decisions, laws, etc.	The state assembly will vote on a tax bill next week.	I hope that it won't be necessary to talk to our local Assembly representative, because that would only make this process longer.
evp	assembly	noun	2	C2	when you build something by attaching parts together	The frame needs to be strong enough to support the engine assembly.	The spring beneath one of the 3 seats integrated with the sofa assembly also seems to be broken.
evp	assert	verb	1	C1	to say that something is certainly true	He asserts that she stole money from him.	It could be asserted that less financially able children are better equipped to cope with potential life problems than the more fortunate children.
evp	assert	verb	2	C2	to behave or speak in a strong, confident way	She has to learn to assert herself.	Such an attitude may also be the result of little pangs of homesickness or of our need to assert ourselves, to feel superior in a foreign country.
evp	assert	verb	3	C2	to do something to show other people that you have power	She soon asserted her authority as leader.	He can assert his authority over all the boys who are there.
evp	assertive	adjective	1	C2	behaving or speaking in a strong, confident way	You need to be much more assertive.	I want to learn how to be more assertive, find emotional independence, fulfil my dreams, be more tolerant, less sarcastic and, most importantly, be given the precious gift of patience.
evp	assess	verb	1	B2	to make a judgement about the quality, size or value, etc. of something	Examinations are a way of assessing a student's ability.	The aim of this report is to compare and assess the architecture, food and service of two restaurants in my area.
evp	assessment	noun	1	B2	when you make a judgement about the quality, size or value, etc. of something	That's a fair assessment of the situation.	Secondly, I was a little bit upset about your assessment of the other performers because they showed us their great musical talents.
evp	asset	noun	1	C1	a person, skill or quality that is useful or helps you to succeed	He'll be a great asset to the team.	I am sure that you will be more than satisfied with him and that he is going to be an asset to your hotel.
evp	asset	noun	2	C1	something which a person or company owns that has a value	The company has $70 billion in assets.	Somehow, all his assets were frozen by the bank and the family became poor overnight.
evp	assign	verb	1	C1	to give someone a particular job or responsibility	UN forces were assigned the task of rebuilding the hospital.	Some of the work they were assigned was quite boring for them.
evp	assign	verb	2	C2	to give someone a particular job or place to work	Which police officer has been assigned to this case?	She was assigned to Sanming Police Station.
evp	assignment	noun	1	B1	a piece of work, especially school work, or a job that you are given to do	a vocabulary/reading/math assignment	I'll ask Susan about today's assignments.
evp	assist	verb	1	B2	to help	The army arrived to assist in the search.	However, I used to assist my brother, who is a photographer.
evp	assistance	noun	1	B2	help	Can I be of any assistance?	Thank you for your assistance.
evp	association	noun	1	B2	an organization of people with the same interests or with a particular purpose	the American Medical Association	I am a member of the local Kung-Fu Association.
evp	association	noun	2	C1	working together with	The event was organized in association with the Student Council.	This service, which will be provided in association with Foster Loft, will be available at the end of 2005.
evp	association	noun	3	C2	a connection or relationship between two things or people	There is no association between the two groups.	The second example is people who wear clothes such as black leather suits and black or purple lip-stick, showing their association with a particular genre of music.
evp	assume	verb	1	B2	to think that something is true, without question or proof	I assumed (that) you knew each other because you went to the same school.	The police assumed he was lying so they put him in jail.
evp	assume	verb	2	C2	to take a position of control/power/responsibility, etc.	He has assumed the role of spokesman for the group.	She got involved in the marketing business there and assumed responsibility very soon - she became the marketing director for continental Europe.
evp	assumption	noun	1	C1	something that you think is true without having any proof	People tend to make assumptions about you when you have a disability.	But if this assumption is right, and if you consider how much fashion has changed over the last 60 years, does this mean that we are so very different from our grandparents?
evp	assurance	noun	1	C1	a promise	He gave us his assurance that it would not happen again.	Again, may I give my assurances that the above two requests for equipment acquisition would be money well spent for our company.
evp	assurance	noun	2	C2	confidence	He spoke with calm assurance.	"I urge you to stay calm and wait for the rescue team," said Mark with assurance.
evp	assure	verb	1	B2	to tell someone confidently that something is true, especially so that they do not worry	She assured him (that) the car would be ready the next day.	I can assure you that the food will be delicious.
evp	assure	verb	2	C1	to make something certain to happen	This loan should assure the company's future.	The PT is guaranteed to assure higher test results or your money back!
evp	astonished	adjective	1	B2	very surprised	I was astonished to see Miriam there.	She was astonished when she saw what wa] in front of her.
evp	astonishing	adjective	1	B2	very surprising	Her first novel enjoyed an astonishing level of success.	The Lakeside Inn, is not an expensive one, at all, it has got a good restaurant, nice service and an astonishing view of Lake Frene.
evp	astonishment	noun	1	B2	very great surprise	To my astonishment, she started laughing.	To our astonishment, we were in front of a small house which seemed to have been built centuries ago.
evp	astronomy	noun	1	C2	the scientific study of stars and planets	This is the biggest step forward in astronomy since Galileo's first telescope over four hundred years ago.	Her father was famous for his vast knowledge of astronomy and books he wrote on this subject.
evp	athlete	noun	1	B1	a person who is very good at sports or physical exercise, especially one who competes in organized events	He became a professional athlete at the age of 16.	It's amazing what the athletes can do, don't you think?
evp	athletic	adjective	1	B2	strong, healthy and good at sports	She looks very athletic.	Furthermore, I am not only very athletic, but also really sociable and outgoing.
evp	atmosphere	noun	1	B1	the feeling which exists in a place or situation	There's a very relaxed atmosphere in our office.	You'll also love the friendly atmosphere here.
evp	atmosphere	noun	2	B2	the mixture of gases around the Earth	These factories are releasing toxic gases into the atmosphere.	I'm against cars because their CO2 emissions destroy the atmosphere.
evp	atmosphere	noun	3	B2	the air inside a room or other place	The atmosphere in the room was so stuffy I could hardly breathe.	The atmosphere in the halls also became hot and humid, thus making the whole experience rather unpleasant.
evp	atom	noun	1	B2	the smallest unit that an element can be divided into	A molecule of carbon dioxide (CO2) has one carbon atom and two oxygen atoms.	Anyway, the manager of that center called me in order to inform me that I would be doing research on nuclear power and atoms.
evp	atomic	adjective	1	B2	using the energy that is created when an atom is divided	atomic energy/power	There are lots more dangerous things in the world, like radioactive pollution or atomic bombs.
evp	attach	verb	1	B1	to connect or fix one thing to another	I attached a photo to my application form.	I attach my C.V. and I look forward to discussing it with you.
evp	attach	verb	2	B1	to connect a file, such as a document, picture or computer program, to an e-mail		I'm going to send you some information about hotels attached to this mail.
evp	attach	verb	3	C2	to think that someone or something has importance/value, etc.	You attach too much importance to money.	My father knew exactly when he had to attach importance to feelings or emotions.
evp	attach	verb	4	C2	to include something as part of something else	There were too many conditions attached to the deal.	Furthermore, the aid provided to these countries is not always innocent and might have strings attached.
evp	attached	adjective	1	B2	joined or connected to another thing	Please fill out the attached form.	As I am an athletic swimmer and a good surfer too, my choice from your attached list is naturally swimming and surfing.
evp	attached	adjective	2	C1	feeling emotionally close to someone or something	The children are very attached to their grandparents.	My only concern is that she is a bit shy and very attached to her family, but I really don't think it would be a problem since she travels a lot and has already spent two months abroad.
evp	attachment	noun	1	B2	an extra piece of equipment that can be added to a machine	This food processor has a special attachment for grinding coffee.	
evp	attachment	noun	2	B2	a computer file that is sent together with an e-mail message	I'll e-mail my report to you as an attachment.	
evp	attachment	noun	3	C2	a feeling of love or strong connection to someone or something	She had a special attachment to these students.	Despite this impression she rejected her growing attachment to George in order to fulfil her family's expectations.
evp	attack	verb	1	B1	to try to hurt or defeat using violence	He was attacked and seriously injured by a gang of youths.	At least he didn't attack me, and he even lent me his cell phone, he was such a gentle criminal.
evp	attack	verb	2	C1	to strongly criticize someone or something	She attacked the government's new education policy.	His behaviour was noticed, but the media could not attack such a successful negotiator.
evp	attack	verb	3	C2	If a disease, chemical, etc., attacks someone or something, it damages it.	The virus attacks the central nervous system.	There is a myriad of diseases that attack the less protected.
evp	attack	noun	1	B1	a violent act intended to hurt or damage someone or something	a racist attack	I have planned to see "The attack of the super mutant aliens."
evp	attack	noun	2	C2	when you say something to strongly criticize someone or something	a scathing attack on the president	Young people often insist on doing everything on their own and consider advice almost an attack on their personal opinion.
evp	attain	verb	1	C1	to achieve something, especially after a lot of work	She's attained a high level of fitness.	Alternatively, an English speaker from a non-English-speaking country may be of help only if he/she has attained a level higher than yours.
evp	attainable	adjective	1	C2	possible to achieve	We must ensure that we do not set ourselves goals that are not attainable.	As electronic media sources have become more affordable and attainable, more people have access to local and international news and events.
evp	attempt	verb	1	B1	to try to do something, especially something difficult	He attempted to escape through a window.	It was the second time I had attempted the exam.
evp	attempt	noun	1	B2	when you try to do something	This is my second attempt at the exam.	I made several attempts to make him change his mind, but I failed.
evp	attend	verb	1	B1	to go to an event, place, etc.	Over two hundred people attended the funeral.	I attend one of these activities, it was cricket, it was for the whole day.
evp	attend	verb	2	B1	to go regularly to a place, such as a particular school	Which school does your daughter attend?	I attend Northampton College, which is quite far away from my house.
evp	attendance	noun	1	C1	the number of people who go to an event, meeting, etc.	falling attendance	Also in May, we had the swimming gala, which had a very high attendance from students as there were races for all abilities.
evp	attendance	noun	2	C1	when you go somewhere such as a church, school, etc. regularly	His attendance at school is very poor.	Consequently, I would make attendance more flexible for the members.
evp	attendance	noun	3	C2	present at an event	They have doctors in attendance at every match.	Professional coaches are in attendance and the members can have proper lessons.
evp	attention	noun	1	B1	when you watch, listen to, or think about something carefully or with interest	Ladies and gentlemen, could I have your attention, please?	Thank you for your attention.
evp	attention	noun	2	B1	to watch, listen to, or think about something carefully	You weren't paying attention to what I was saying.	Larry is a very distracted boy. Everybody says that he should pay attention to what he is doing.
evp	attention	noun	3	B2	to make someone notice you	I waved at her to get her attention.	The bank is near the school, so the lady was trying to get people's attention while the others robbed the bank.
evp	attention	noun	4	B2	to make someone notice something or someone	If I could just draw your attention to the second paragraph.	The purpose of his report is to draw attention to videos in English.
evp	attention	noun	5	C2	to receive more attention than anyone or anything else	He loves to be the center of attention.	He would have so much fun being the center of attention.
evp	attic	noun	1	B2	a space in a house just under the roof, often used for storing things	There's a large room and additional storage space in the attic.	She had no idea how but she knew she had all the luck she could ever get, from the very old lucky rabbit foot she found up in the attic yesterday.
evp	attitude	noun	1	B1	how you think or feel about something, and how this makes you behave	He has a very bad attitude to/toward work.	The waiters had a very good attitude toward the customers and the food was really wonderful.
evp	attorney	noun	1	C1	a lawyer who represents people in legal matters or speaks for them in court	a defense attorney	An innocent man is arrested and the court appoints an attorney to defend him.
evp	attract	verb	1	B1	to make people come to a place or do a particular thing by being interesting, enjoyable, etc.	The castle attracts more than 300,000 visitors a year.	Although it was the first time that I came to this new class, it attracted me deeply.
evp	attract	verb	2	B1	to cause people to pay attention/be interested, etc.	Her ideas have attracted a lot of attention in the scientific community.	When I go out with my friends I actually like wearing clothes that attract people's attention.
evp	attract	verb	3	B2	to like someone because of the way they look or behave	I was attracted to him straight away.	She was really attracted to him.
evp	attraction	noun	1	B1	something that makes people come to a place or do a particular thing	tourist attractions	At first I only wanted to see the many attractions in Balboa Park.
evp	attraction	noun	2	C2	when you like someone, especially romantically, because of the way they look or behave	We had a strong mutual attraction.	Ever since the beginning, since the day when Olivia met the Nawab for the first time, she felt an i]nexplicabl attraction toward him.
evp	attractive	adjective	1	A2	beautiful or pleasant to look at	an attractive woman	It's very small but attractive.
evp	attractive	adjective	2	B2	interesting or useful	an attractive offer/idea	Your big library where you might find some books that are not available in other libraries is undoubtedly very attractive for anyone who loves literature.
evp	auction	noun	1	C1	a sale in which things are sold to the person who offers the most money	The furniture was sold at auction.	And funds could be raised for the changes by hold]in auctions, runs, parties, raffles, contests etc.
evp	audience	noun	1	B1	the people who sit and watch a performance at a theater, hall, outdoors, etc.	There were a lot of children in the audience.	All the people in the audience looked at me, I was very excited. The band called me, so I went to the stage and they started to play a very popular song.
evp	audience	noun	2	B2	the type of people who watch a particular TV show, read a particular book, etc.	This magazine is aimed at a teenage/young audience.	The above-mentioned restaurants are totally different from each other and suit completely different customers. Pasta, to begin with, is best suited to a younger audience.
evp	audition	noun	1	C1	when someone does a short performance to try to get a job as an actor, singer, etc.	She's got an audition for the show.	Many un]talente people think they can sing and attend the auditions, but others laugh at them.
evp	August	noun	1	A1	the eighth month of the year, after July and before September	the 13th of August/August 13(th)	Dear Jo: The class is going to be the 9th of August.
evp	aunt	noun	1	A2	the sister of someone's father or mother, or the wife of someone's uncle	I have an aunt in Australia.	My uncle, my aunt, my cousin and my friends (Renata, Gustavo, John, Paul) came to the party.
evp	authentic	adjective	1	C1	If something is authentic, it is real, true, or what people say it is.	authentic Italian food	I am also nostalgic for authentic Thai culture which has subtly and gradually been replaced by American and European culture.
evp	author	noun	1	B1	the writer of a book, article, play, etc.	He is the author of two books on French history.	During the Easter holiday, I read a very good thriller by an Italian author, Andrea Camilleri.
evp	authority	noun	1	B2	the power to make decisions or to control other people	The United Nations has used its authority to restore peace in the area.	Their parents have lost almost all their authority.
evp	authority	noun	2	C1	someone with official power to control a particular type of activity	local/health/school autorities	Air pollution and traffic congestions are major issues that have been raised by local authorities very recently.
evp	authority	noun	3	C2	someone who has a lot of knowledge about a particular subject	She is an authority on seventeenth-century English literature.	I read the book more than six times and I became an authority on the Roman Empire.
evp	authorize	verb	1	C1	to give official permission for something	His manager had authorized the expenditure.	If we do that, every piece of data is stored in a place accessible for anyone authorized, for example, you.
evp	authorize	verb	2	C1	to be officially allowed to do something	Only managers are authorized to sign expense forms.	In my capacity as the secretary of the Social Club, I am authorized to express students' dissatisfaction with the facilities of the museum and to urge you to take remedial action toward improving the situation.
evp	automatic	adjective	1	B2	An automatic machine works by itself or with little human control.	automatic doors	It has both manual and automatic functions so it has a lot of possibilities.
evp	automatic	adjective	2	C2	done as a natural reaction, without thinking	My automatic response was to pull my hand away.	Her gesture was almost automatic.
evp	automatic	adjective	3	C2	certain to happen as part of the normal process or system	You get an automatic promotion after two years.	
evp	automatically	adverb	1	B2	If a machine does something automatically, it does it independently, without human control.	The camera adjusts the shutter speed automatically.	[The] television will be automatically switched on in time for the breakfast news.
evp	automatically	adverb	2	B2	If you do something automatically, you do it without thinking about it.	I automatically put my hand out to catch it.	There was a strange envelope between the others, so automatically, she picked it up and looked at the stamp. The letter came from Australia.
evp	availability	noun	1	B2	when something or someone is available	I checked the availability of flights online and there's plenty of choice.	Therefore, it is essential that you take account of my availability when booking the trip.
evp	available	adjective	1	A2	able to be bought, used, or gotten	Do you have any double rooms available this weekend?	I would like to know more details and what facilities are available.
evp	available	adjective	2	A2	If someone is available, they are not busy and so are able to do something.	Are you available next weekend?	I am available any time.
evp	avenue	noun	1	C1	a street, often a wide one, in a city or town	Michigan Avenue in Chicago is famous for its elegant stores.	The demonstrators just spread litter all over the largest and finest avenue.
evp	avenue	noun	2	C2	a possible way of doing or achieving something	We have exhausted all other avenues of treatment.	
evp	average	adjective	1	A2	typical and usual	The average person in the street is a lot better off than they were forty years ago.	This makes people believe that a lot of the food we eat is fast-food, but it's not true at all, in fact it's a very small part of our average diet.
evp	average	adjective	2	B1	An average number is the number you get by adding two or more amounts together and dividing the total by the number of amounts.	an average age/temperature	The weather on this mountain is fantastic, with an average temperature of 17°C.
evp	average	adjective	3	C1	not particularly good	The meal was pretty average.	I didn't get the high standard of service that you had offered me, and the food was pretty average.
evp	average	noun	1	B1	the result you get by adding two or more amounts together and dividing the total by the number of amounts	Prices have risen by an average of 4% over the past year.	On the table was my mark sheet with the average as 90%.
evp	average	noun	2	B1	the usual or typical amount	An 8-hour working day is about the average.	I don't] have much time to watch TV and I only spend an average of two to five hours a week.
evp	average	noun	3	B2	usually, or based on an average	Female workers earn, on average, a third less than men.	On average, our pupils are 16 years old and they join actively in all the events we organize.
evp	avoid	verb	1	B1	to stay away from a person, place, situation, etc.	I try to avoid going downtown on the weekend.	People despise and avoid her because she is ugly.
evp	avoid	verb	2	B2	to prevent something from happening	I left the room to avoid a fight.	I think that all these problems could have been avoided and that asking for my money back is the best way of forgetting that evening.
evp	avoid	verb	3	B2	to intentionally not do something	She managed to avoid answering my question.	The writer avoided describing personal thoughts.
evp	awake	adjective	1	B1	not sleeping	I find it so difficult to stay awake late.	She felt so nervous that it kept her awake at night.
evp	awake	adjective	2	C2	to be completely awake	"Is Oliver awake yet?" "Yes, he's wide awake and running around his bedroom."	Sometimes, when I have put my children to bed, half an hour later an aircraft flies over and my two-year old daughter is wide awake again.
evp	award	verb	1	B2	to give money or a prize following an official decision	He was awarded the Nobel Prize for physics.	As you will see, I was awarded a grade A.
evp	award	noun	1	B2	a prize given to someone for something they have achieved	the Academy Award for Best Director	He became world-famous when he won the Oscar award for best song last year.
evp	aware	adjective	1	B2	knowing that something exists, or having knowledge or experience of a particular thing	Were you aware of the risks at the time?	First of all, we aren't aware of the necessity of learning such things as biology or math.
evp	awareness	noun	1	C1	when you know about something	Environmental awareness is increasing all the time.	Thirdly, I have a strong awareness of issues which are important to my local community.
evp	away	adverb	1	A2	in a different place, position or situation	Just go away and leave me alone!	I have an important exam on your wedding day in another city far away from my city.
evp	away	adverb	2	A2	at a particular distance from a place	The nearest town was ten miles away.	I like it because its remote control could control distances of 1 or 2 meters away.
evp	away	adverb	3	B1	in or into the usual or a suitable place, especially one that can be closed	Could you put the ice-cream away in the freezer?	I am going to put all the toys away.
evp	away	adverb	4	B1	at a particular time in the future	My English exam's only a week away and I haven't even started to prepare.	Christmas is just a few months away, and I do not intend to spend it all alone like in the past few years, so I am writing to invite you to my real Christmas party without my parents.
evp	away	adverb	5	B2	gradually disappearing until mostly or completely gone	All the snow had melted away.	I always feel so fatigued at the end of the day but after a mile, the aches of the day seem to fade away.
evp	away	adverb	6	C1	If a sports team is playing away, the game is at the place where the other team usually plays.	They were playing away.	
evp	away	adverb	7	C2	used after a verb to mean "continuously" or "repeatedly"	Chris was hammering away in the garden all day.	They chatted away for a while as Malcolm had to wait for the airport taxi.
evp	awe	noun	1	C2	a feeling of great respect and sometimes fear	I was filled with awe at the sheer size of the building.	As a child growing up, the presence of my grandmother filled me with awe.
evp	awe	noun	2	C2	to feel great respect for and sometimes fear of someone	As children we were rather in awe of our grandfather.	As I was the eldest of the siblings, they used to respect all my orders and even now, they are a bit in awe of me.
evp	awesome	adjective	1	A2	extremely good	Your new haircut is awesome.	My birthday party was awesome!
evp	awesome	adjective	2	C2	great or special and causing deep feelings of admiration, respect, or sometimes fear	an awesome achievement	Italy is crowded by groups sheepishly following their guides in an awesome silence and respect.
evp	awful	adjective	1	A2	very bad, of low quality, or unpleasant	The weather was awful.	We wanted to go shopping in Oxford Street but everything is too expensive and the weather was awful.
evp	awful	adjective	2	B2	a very large amount	It cost an awful lot of money.	First of all, I want to highlight that we see an awful lot of mobile phones in our daily life.
evp	awkward	adjective	1	B2	difficult or causing problems	an awkward shape	
evp	awkward	adjective	2	B2	embarrassing and not relaxed	an awkward situation	Not a movement, not a voice, just an awkward silence.
evp	awkward	adjective	3	C2	without beauty, ease, and skill when moving	He’s too awkward – he’ll never be a good dancer.	Piggy's "value" is not apparent to the boys because it is concealed by the sight of his awkward self: he is plump, he wears thick spectacles, he is not gifted with good health.
evp	baby	noun	1	A1	a very young child	a baby boy/girl	Every day Elisa goes to work, makes dinner for her little baby and watches the T.V. with her husband.
evp	baby	noun	2	A2	a very young animal	a baby elephant/monkey	They would take us to see some baby sharks, dolphins, and whales.
evp	babysit	verb	1	B1	to look after someone's child in their home while they are not there	I babysit for Jane on Tuesday evenings.	As you know I am an au pair in London and I sometimes have to babysit i] the evening.
evp	babysitter	noun	1	B1	someone who takes care of your child while you are out	I promised the babysitter that we'd be home by midnight.	Write me an e-mail and I will send you the address of the family who needs a babysitter.
evp	back	adverb	1	A1	where someone or something was before	When do you go back to school?	She went back home at once.
evp	back	adverb	2	A2	as a reply or reaction to something	I'm busy at the moment - can I call you back?	Write back to me soon.
evp	back	adverb	3	B1	in a direction behind you	He sat back on the sofa.	I cried out] stepping back and falling down.
evp	back	adverb	4	B2	to the state something or someone was in before	It's not badly broken - I'm sure we can put it back together again.	My life was back to normal.
evp	back	adverb	5	B2	at or to an earlier time	We first met back in 1971.	All in all, it is difficult to get bored in Moscow, where you can see buildings which date back to centuries ago.
evp	back	adverb	6	B2	in a direction away from something	He pulled back the curtain.	The action of the book takes place in a lonely inn standing back from the road.
evp	back	adverb	7	C2	in one direction and then in the opposite direction, often many times	She swayed back and forth to the music.	Finally, after much walking back and forth, we found a road, which we followed till we got to the town.
evp	back	noun	1	A2	the part of something that is farthest from the front or on the side opposite the front	He wrote her e-mail address down on the back of an envelope.	My cousins love mermaids, so each sweater has one on the back.
evp	back	noun	2	A2	the part of your body from your shoulders to your bottom	back injuries/pain	The look on his face stopped me cold, as if someone had just poured freezing water down my back.
evp	back	noun	3	B1	behind someone or something	They sat in back of us on the plane.	I looked in back of me and saw my best friend, Malcom, laughing like crazy.
evp	back	noun	4	C2	the part of a seat that you lean against when you are sitting	the back of a chair	The back of the sofa is scratched, too.
evp	back	noun	5	C2	If you do something behind someone's back, you do it without them knowing, often in an unfair way.	Have they been saying things about me behind my back?	The food must be perfect, too, or else her mother-in-law and my father's sisters will think that she's not a proper wife, and will probably say insulting things about her behind her back.
evp	back	noun	6	C2	to decide to stop having contact with someone or something, or to refuse to help someone	She turned her back on Hollywood and went to live in Florida.	She gets to learn that Olivia turned her back on her past and merged totally with India through her attraction to and sympathy for the Nawab.
evp	back	adjective	1	A2	at or near the back of something	a back door/room	There are two movies, but one is for adults so we will see "The back garden".
evp	back	adjective	2	C1	a small road or street without much traffic and away from the main roads	I prefer to take back roads and avoid the highway traffic.	From the museum you have to walk across a pedestrian street, through an unspoiled district, where a jumble of narrow back streets retain old-world character.
evp	back	verb	1	C2	to give support or help to a person, plan, or idea	The board refuses to back our plan.	Of course, without the people who are backing the leader in his fight, he could not achieve his success.
evp	back	verb	2	C2	to move backward	When the dog growled, she backed away.	When he backed out of the parking lot, he almost crashed into another car.
evp	back	verb	3	C2	to move away from someone, usually because you are afraid	I saw he had a knife and backed off immediately.	Mad Dog would kill him if he tried to back off.
evp	back	verb	4	C1	to decide not to do something you had planned or agreed to do	Frank backed out at the last minute, so we had a spare ticket.	I met her in the next day, and tried to make an excuse, to back out of the deal, but she didn't let me.
evp	back	verb	5	B2	to support or help someone	My family backed me up in my fight for compensation.	These courses seem to have been popular, perhaps because the teacher of these courses was there to back up and help the students.
evp	back	verb	6	C2	to prove that something is true	His claims are backed up by recent research.	To back up this claim, the case of children who have grown up in orphanages is often cited.
evp	back	verb	7	B2	to make an extra copy of something that is held in your computer	Always back up any music you download in case your computer crashes.	
evp	backache	noun	1	B1	pain in your back	I had terrible backache last week.	I had a backache.
evp	background	noun	1	B1	a person's education, family and experience of life	The school has pupils from many different ethnic/cultural/religious backgrounds.	You can learn a lot about our cultural background.
evp	background	noun	2	B2	sounds that you can hear that are not the main sounds that you are listening to	background music/noise	The exotic food together with oriental music in the background makes you dream of exotic places.
evp	background	noun	3	B2	the things that can be seen behind the main things or people in a picture	gold stars on a black background	There are lots of nice trees and flowers which I think, would compose an interesting background.
evp	background	noun	4	B2	the situation that an event happens in, or things which have happened in the past which affect it	These decisions are being made against a background of high unemployment.	The background of the story is life in a small town in one of the southern states of the USA in the early 1930s.
evp	backing	noun	1	C2	support, especially money, for a person or plan	financial backing	Take some examples throughout history, such as Napoleon, who was very intelligent, and Hitler who, despite being dangerous and evil, had the backing of his country when he spoke to the people.
evp	backpack	noun	1	A2	a bag that you carry on your back	I couldn't fit anything else in my backpack.	Lucy, I have left my backpack in your house. It is very important because there are all my books!
evp	backpacker	noun	1	B1	someone, especially a young person, who travels around an area without spending much money, carrying a backpack	The hostel is used mainly by backpackers.	There is a special offer for backpackers.
evp	backpacking	noun	1	B1	when you travel around an area without spending much money, carrying a backpack	I went backpacking when I was a student.	Until now I mainly spent my holidays backpacking through Europe.
evp	backup	noun	1	B2	extra help, support or equipment which is available if you need it	Medical staff are on call to provide backup in case of an emergency.	I'm sure that most business people have battery back-up and a very good knowledge of when the laptop battery needs to recharge.
evp	backup	noun	2	B2	a copy of information that is held on a computer, which is stored separately from the computer	Before we leave work each day, we make a backup of all the records we have entered into the computer that day.	Seems he had made a copy in a special file in a back-up memory.
evp	backward	adverb	1	B1	toward the direction behind you	I walked backward toward the door.	There's a big park near the place I live, and I think I'll go in-line skating there, rolling forward, cruising backward and speeding up, enjoying the exciting moment.
evp	backward	adverb	2	C1	to try very hard to do something	They bent over backwards to make us feel at home.	They won't bend over backwards to look for a quick solution, but sooner or latter the matter will be solved.
evp	backward	adjective	1	C2	less developed or slower to develop than normal	The state needs to reform its backward election laws.	No longer a remote, backward, unimportant country, it became a force to be reckoned with in Europe.
evp	backyard	noun	1	B1	a small area of land behind a house that is usually covered with grass and may have a fence around it	Growing up, we had a pool and swings in our backyard.	My new home is amazing and I love the backyard, it's enormous.
evp	bacon	noun	1	B1	meat from a pig cut into long thin slices	a bacon sandwich	I like bacon very much but I ever eat it.
evp	bacteria	noun	1	C1	very small living things that sometimes cause disease	The infection was caused by bacteria in the lung.	We were just lucky that during that period, the weather was cold and low temperatures prevented bacteria from spreading.
evp	bad	adjective	1	A1	unpleasant; causing difficulties or harm	Our vacation was ruined by bad weather.	The weather was bad so we stayed in my house.
evp	bad	adjective	2	A2	of low quality and not acceptable	The food was so bad we couldn't eat it.	I decided to join this new class because I'm bad at English and I want be the best!
evp	bad	adjective	3	A2	satisfactory	That's not bad for such a small company.	The presents are not bad.
evp	bad	adjective	4	A2	to be harmful for someone or something	Looking at a computer screen for too long can be bad for your eyes.	I don't like playing on the computer because it's bad for my eyes.
evp	bad	adjective	5	B1	very serious or severe	a bad injury	I can't go because I have to go to the hospital to see my grandmother who is in very bad health.
evp	bad	adjective	6	B1	not lucky, or not happening how you would like	It was just bad luck that she heard us.	Actually he had bad luck in his exam this time but he can try to do his best next time, can't he?
evp	bad	adjective	7	B1	to feel guilty or sorry about something that has happened	I felt bad about letting her down.	I don't have anything else which was yours, and I feel so bad about it.
evp	bad	adjective	8	B1	used to say that you are sorry about a situation	"He didn't get the job." "Oh, that's too bad."	Too bad you couldn't be here.
evp	bad	adjective	9	B1	(of people or actions) evil or morally unacceptable	There are a lot of bad people in the world.	I knew he was a bad man.
evp	bad	adjective	10	B2	Bad food is not fresh and cannot be eaten.	I think this milk is bad.	My surprise was when I opened the fridge and all the food smelt bad, so I couldn't eat anything]
evp	bad	adjective	11	C1	If you have a bad arm, leg, heart, etc., there is something wrong with it and it is painful.	I've got a bad shoulder.	I'm lugging my laptop with me everywhere, with a bad back as a result.
evp	bad	adjective	12	C1	used to say that nothing can be done to change a situation	I know you don't want to go but it's too bad, we have to.	Human beings have to make their own lives as good as possible, and if they do not succeed, the cynical approach is just: too bad!
evp	badge	noun	1	B2	a piece of metal, plastic,  etc., with words or a picture on it which you wear on your clothes	Everyone at the conference wore a badge with their name on.	Then I saw the badge he was wearing.
evp	badly	adverb	1	A2	in a way that is not acceptable or of good quality	They played very badly in the first half.	I had done badly in my last exam and my teacher said she would talk to my mother.
evp	badly	adverb	2	A2	very much	He needs the money very badly.	I need that very badly because I need my five-thousand rupees urgently.
evp	badly	adverb	3	A2	very seriously	badly damaged/hurt/injured	My brother told me that he crashed into the tree with his car and he was badly injured.
evp	badly	adverb	4	B2	in an unpleasant way	I thought he was treated very badly.	In the past, zoos treated animals quite badly.
evp	badminton	noun	1	A2	a sport for two or four people in which you hit a light object with feathers over a net	We played a game of badminton.	I like reading and playing badminton.
evp	bad-tempered	adjective	1	B2	describes a person who becomes angry and annoyed easily	She's very bad-tempered in the morning!	It would be possible too that you lost your temper and became a bad-tempered man.
evp	bag	noun	1	A1	a container made of paper, plastic, leather, etc., used for carrying things	a paper/plastic bag	I put my bag in the hall under the chair.
evp	baggage	noun	1	B1	all the bags that you take with you when you travel	checked/carry-on baggage	I didn't have much baggage, only one green suitcase.
evp	baggage	noun	2	C2	feelings and experiences from the past that influence how you think and behave now	emotional baggage	Moreover they need to spend it to the best of their abilities trying to bring up a happy person whose behavior will be in harmony with his thoughts and feelings and who will be unencumbered with emotional baggage resulting from lack of love.
evp	bake	verb	1	A2	to cook something such as bread or a cake with dry heat in an oven	I baked a cake.	I can bake some pizzas and cakes if you want me to.
evp	baker	noun	1	B1	someone who makes and sells bread, cakes, etc.		My aunt, who is a baker, can certainly make a big delicious birthday cake for Anna.
evp	bakery	noun	1	B2	a place where bread, cakes, etc. are made or sold	I buy all our bread from the local bakery.	The best bakery was on the other side of town.
evp	balance	noun	1	B2	when the weight of someone or something is spread in such a way that they do not fall over	I lost my balance and fell off the bike.	I began to go downstairs to the kitchen, with two hands on the wall to keep my balance.
evp	balance	noun	2	B2	when the correct amount of importance is given to each thing so that a situation is successful	We must strike a balance between police powers and the protection of citizens.	It is not easy to find the right balance in our lives.
evp	balance	noun	3	B2	the amount of money that you still have to pay, or that you have left to use	I always pay off the balance on my credit card.	Sometimes you are surprised when you check the balance of your bank account and then need to cut down your expenses for 2 months.
evp	balance	noun	4	B2	used to give your opinion after you have considered all the facts about something	I think that on balance, I'd prefer to come straight home.	On balance, I feel that this annual festival can be even better next year.
evp	balance	noun	5	C1	to fall because you are leaning too much to one side	He lost his balance and fell down the stairs.	The most exciting part was when we accidently hit a rock and I lost my balance and fell into the cold water.
evp	balance	noun	6	C1	to give two things the same amount of attention	It's important to strike a balance between spending and saving.	Everything has good and bad sides, the most important thing is to strike a balance.
evp	balance	noun	7	C2	If something is or hangs in the balance, nobody knows if it will continue to exist in the future or what will happen to it.	The game hung in the balance until the last seconds.	It is my firm belief, that unless we make a step towards the development of our town, its future will hang in the balance and we will ultimately pay the price of our short sightedness.
evp	balance	verb	1	B2	to be in a position where you will not fall to either side, or to put something in this position	She was trying to balance a book on her head.	If you have to take many things with you, it will be better to carry them in your car, rather than balancing them on your bicycle.
evp	balance	verb	2	B2	to give several things equal amounts of importance, time or money so that a situation is successful	I struggle to balance work and family commitments.	In life we need to balance all the areas included in human behavior.
evp	balcony	noun	1	B1	a small area joined to the wall outside an upper room where you can stand or sit	We had a drink out on the balcony and watched the sunset.	It's got a balcony, too, from where I can see the river.
evp	balcony	noun	2	C2	the seats in an upper part of a theater	We had seats in the balcony.	The balcony seats reserved for students and young tourists felt like they were located on a steep cliff, looking down on all the heads in the better seats rather than at the stage.
evp	bald	adjective	1	B1	with little or no hair on the head	At twenty he was already going bald.	Police Officers jumped out from the bushes and subdued the bald man, Lew Juan Yee.
evp	ball	noun	1	A1	a round object that you throw, kick, or hit in a game, or something with this shape	a beach/golf/tennis ball	They gave me a ball and a T-shirt.
evp	ball	noun	2	C1	to be quick to understand and react to things	She's over ninety, but she's still on the ball.	When you're at Sants station, you'll need to be on the ball.
evp	ball	noun	3	C2	to make something begin or happen	We have to get the ball rolling on this project soon.	
evp	ballet	noun	1	B2	a type of dancing where carefully organized movements tell a story or express an idea	a ballet dancer	She is always making me laugh, and she likes ballet too!
evp	balloon	noun	1	A2	a small, colored rubber bag that you blow air into or fill with air until it is round in shape, used for decoration at parties or as a children's toy	We tied balloons and streamers to the ceiling ready for the party.	In the party room there were many balloons.
evp	ban	verb	1	B2	to forbid something, especially officially	The film was banned in several countries.	Personally, I think that driving private cars in the main parts of cities should be banned.
evp	ban	noun	1	B2	an official order that prevents something from happening	There should be a ban on talking loudly in movie theaters.	
evp	banana	noun	1	A1	a long curved fruit with a yellow skin	a bunch of bananas	
evp	band	noun	1	A1	a group of musicians who play modern music together	a jazz/rock band	Can we have a rock band like Etho?
evp	band	noun	2	C2	a thin, flat piece or circle of material put around something or used to hold things together	I have two bands for this watch, one black and one red.	It is my wedding ring I am referring to, which was presented to me 3 years ago. It is a platinum band with 12 tiny diamonds set at regular intervals to go all a]round
evp	bandage	noun	1	A2	a long piece of soft cloth that you tie around an injured part of the body	She had a bandage around her wrist.	The doctor said that in one week he would take off my bandage and as soon as possible I'll come to visit you.
evp	bang	verb	1	B2	to make a sudden loud noise or to cause something to do this	She banged her fist angrily on the table.	One Friday afternoon I was putting away clothes and shoes in the little room which is under the stairs, when my little son, Tom (who was just eighteen months old) banged the door shut behind me.
evp	bang	noun	1	B2	a sudden loud noise	The window slammed shut with a loud bang.	I was reading when I suddenly heard a big bang.
evp	bank	noun	1	A1	an organization or place where you can borrow money, save money, etc.	I need to go to the bank at lunchtime.	She works in a bank.
evp	bank	noun	2	B2	sloping raised land, especially along the sides of a river	By the time we reached the opposite bank, the boat was sinking fast.	One bank of the river is stony, the other is sandy.
evp	bank account	noun	1	B2	an arrangement with a bank to keep your money there and to allow you to take it out when you need to	It would be a good idea to open a bank account.	The man, whose name I can't remember, wrote a serious-looking message in which he talked about a money transfer to a Swiss bank account.
evp	banker	noun	1	B2	someone with an important position in a bank	She was a successful banker by the time she was forty.	
evp	banking	noun	1	A2	the activity of managing the money in your bank accounts	I need to do my banking this afternoon.	Computers are the most modern invention of our societies, they are being used in many fields of our lives, such as banking, in communicating[,] especially in education.
evp	banking	noun	2	B2	the business of operating a bank	investment/commercial/consumer banking	I want to specialize in finance and banking.
evp	bankrupt	adjective	1	C1	unable to continue in business because you cannot pay your debts	He went bankrupt after only a year in business.	But the greed for easy money is likely to diminish as many businesses have gone bankrupt these last few months.
evp	bar	noun	1	A2	a place where especially alcoholic drinks are sold and drunk, or the area in such a place where the person serving the drinks stands	He used to just sit in a bar and listen to jazz.	I can bring all my CD's and a very good CD-player, or I can work at the bar.
evp	bar	noun	2	B2	a substance that has been made into a solid, rectangular shape	a bar of soap	I think I've got the right present for your cousins. What do you think about a bar of chocolate from Switzerland?
evp	bar	noun	3	B2	a straight stick made of metal	The gorilla rattled the bars of its cage.	When they looked into the lake, they saw a long bar of gold.
evp	bar	noun	4	B2	in prison	Until the court hearing, they will remain behind bars.	He confessed that he was guilty and was put behind bars.
evp	barbecue	noun	1	A2	a party at which meat and other food is cooked and eaten outdoors	We're having a barbecue on Saturday.	I didn't get any presents, because we decided to buy more things for my barbecue.
evp	barbecue	noun	2	A2	a piece of equipment used for cooking food outdoors	Put the vegetables on the barbecue.	
evp	barbecue	verb	1	B1	to cook food on a barbecue	Their traditional sausages are delicious grilled or barbecued.	
evp	barbecued	adjective	1	B1	cooked on a barbecue	barbecued chicken/fish	
evp	barber	noun	1	B1	someone whose job is to cut men's hair	Dad goes to the barber once a month.	My mother told me to go to the barber because I had my hair very long.
evp	barbershop	noun	1	B1	a place where men and boys get their hair cut	Dad went to the barbershop on Aster Place to get his hair cut.	
evp	bare	adjective	1	C1	not covered by clothes	bare arms/feet/legs	Most people had more essential needs to satisfy than their looks, but there were also women who painted tight-patterns on their bare legs to create a bit of post-war glamour.
evp	bare	adjective	2	C1	not covered by anything	Inside, the floors were bare and there was very little furniture.	The carpet on the floor is very thin (it's like a paper!). It sometimes comes off and I can see a bare wooden floor.
evp	bare	adjective	3	C2	including only the smallest amount that you need of something	The report just gave us the barest facts about the accident.	Having passed the "prime" of their lives, many of them would be satisfied with the bare minimum as far as material things are concerned.
evp	bare	adjective	4	C2	empty	a bare room	Olivia decorates her "nest" with pictures, plugs and pale yellow sofas, according to the fashion in Europe, whereas the granddaughter is fully satisfied with a bare room.
evp	bare	adjective	5	C2	without using any type of tool or weapon when doing something that requires a lot of strength	He wrestled the lion to the ground with his bare hands.	You could tell your grandchildren about the good old days when you hunted for mammoths and skinned them with your bare hands, just a few million years back (sigh: "seems like yesterday").
evp	barely	adverb	1	C1	only just	They have barely enough to pay the rent this month.	After two weeks of learning English three hours a day I can barely speak simple phrases.
evp	bargain	noun	1	B1	something that is on sale for less than its usual price or its real value	This coat was half-price - a real bargain.	What a bargain!
evp	bargain	noun	2	C2	as well as everything else	Caffeine has no good effects on health and is mildly addictive in the bargain.	More or less few people are, in the bargain, prepared to adapt themselves to the others in order to be accepted.
evp	bark	verb	1	B2	If a dog barks, it makes loud, short sounds.	They heard a dog barking outside.	He barks whenever there is a stranger in our house.
evp	bark	noun	1	C2	the hard, outside part of a tree	The bark of the birch tree is white.	By hitting the bark of trees or hollow pieces of wood rhythmically, prehistoric humans tended to communicate or entertain themselves.
evp	barn	noun	1	C2	a large building on a farm where crops or animals can be kept	The machinery was kept in an old barn.	In the back of the garden of my parents' house there is an old barn. It was used to store the hay when I was a little girl.
evp	barrier	noun	1	B2	a type of fence that stops people from going into an area	Barriers have been erected all along the route the Pope will take.	Only these people can open the barrier with their keys.
evp	barrier	noun	2	B2	something that prevents people from doing what they want to do	Despite the language barrier, they soon became good friends.	Of course, it took a lot of time and effort for her to overcome various difficulties concerning the language barrier and culture shock, but she decided to try herself.
evp	bartender	noun	1	B2	a person who makes and serves drinks in a bar	I asked the bartender to put ice in my drink.	The staff consists of 6 waiters, who are trained extremely well and very attentive. a bartender and several cooks.
evp	base	noun	1	B2	the bottom part of something, or the part something rests on	a crystal glass with a heavy base	
evp	base	noun	2	B2	a place where a military service operates and people in that military service live	an army/navy/air force base	During the day you can visit all of our museums or schools or even the air force base, which is open from 9 o'clock.
evp	base	noun	3	C2	the main place where a person lives or works or where a business operates	I spend a lot of time in Dallas, but Chicago is still my base.	It also has a function as a base for the fishing industry. Being located o] the coast, our town's key industry is fishing.
evp	base	noun	4	C2	the most important part of something, from which other things can develop	a solid economic base	Apart from the economic base of tourism, there are other beneficial aspects to consider.
evp	base	verb	1	B2	to have a particular city, town,  area, etc., as the main place where you live and work, or where you do business	He was based in South Carolina.	The name of the company is Lilley's Bookshop and it is based in Central London.
evp	base	verb	2	B1	If you base something on facts or ideas, you use those facts or ideas to develop it.	The film is based on a short story by Thomas Mann.	This is an exciting film based on the musical "The Phantom of the Opera".
evp	baseball	noun	1	A1	(the ball used in) a game played by two teams of nine players, in which a player hits a ball with a bat and tries to run around the four corners of a large square area of the field before the other team returns the ball	Jake never played baseball like the other kids.	I like playing baseball, so let's play together!
evp	basement	noun	1	B2	a room or set of rooms that is below ground level in a building	a basement apartment	There is also a swimming pool in the basement.
evp	basic	adjective	1	B1	being the main or most important part of something	basic ideas/principles	He started to teach me the basic knowledge of nuclear physics.
evp	basic	adjective	2	B1	including or providing only the things that are most necessary	basic services/skills/training	I already have a racquet and some basic knowledge of how to play.
evp	basic	adjective	3	B1	very simple, with nothing special added	It's the most basic model.	The decoration was basic, but homely.
evp	basically	adverb	1	B2	used to introduce a simple explanation about something	Basically, he's saying we need more time.	Basically, I don't like staying in a small tent.
evp	basically	adverb	2	B2	in most important ways, or to a large degree	These two machines are basically the same, but you get a few extra features in the more expensive one.	I remember it was a very embarrassing situation because basically I didn't know what was going on.
evp	basket	noun	1	B1	a container, usually with a handle, that is made of thin pieces of wood, wire, plastic, etc.	a shopping/picnic basket	As I approached the sound, I saw something that wa] moving inside a basket. It was a baby, crying with hunger.
evp	basketball	noun	1	A1	a game in which two teams try to score points by throwing a ball through a high net, or the ball used in this game	He plays a lot of basketball.	I like playing basketball.
evp	bat	noun	1	A1	a specially shaped piece of wood used for hitting the ball in many games	a baseball/cricket bat	My father brought me a bicycle and my mother gave me a baseball bat.
evp	bat	noun	2	B1	a small animal like a mouse with wings that flies at night	Bats were swooping through the night air.	A bat flew close to my left ear and far away I heard some strange sounds.
evp	bath	noun	1	A1	when you wash your body in a bathtub	I took a bath this morning.	You can take a bath in my bathroom.
evp	bathing suit	noun	1	A2	a piece of clothing you wear to go swimming	I bought a new bathing suit.	[B]ring your bathing suit because here it's very hot and we will go to the swimming pool!
evp	bathroom	noun	1	A1	a room with a sink, a toilet, and often a bathtub and/or shower	The bathroom is right down the hall, on your left.	We have these three bedrooms, one kitchen, living room, and bathroom.
evp	bathroom	noun	2	A2	to empty the body of urine or solid waste, usually using a toilet in a bathroom	It's going to be a long ride, kids, so if you need to go to the bathroom do it now.	I left a history book in your house. It is important because I have to study. I think I left it in your house when you went to the bathroom.
evp	bathtub	noun	1	B1	the container that you sit or lie in to wash your body	Did you clean the bathtub?	Do you have an attached bathroom, complete with bathtub or shower?
evp	battery	noun	1	A2	a device that produces electricity to provide power for cell phones, laptop computers, radios, cars, etc.	My car has a dead battery.	I left it turned on, so the battery must be very low.
evp	battery	noun	2	C2	to have a period of rest and relaxation so that you feel energetic again	She took a trip to the south of France to recharge her batteries.	It is a very effective way in which we could rejuvenate ourselves and recharge our batteries in order to face the difficulties o] the daily routine.
evp	battle	noun	1	B1	a fight between armed forces in a war	the Battle of Gettysburg	But he died in a battle, so nobody knew where the treasure was hidden!
evp	battle	noun	2	B2	a fight against something that is very difficult, or that is hurting or destroying you	a long battle against cancer	His life was a hard battle, trying to break through.
evp	battle	noun	3	C2	when two people or groups compete against each other or have an argument about something	They’re in a battle with their publisher over electronic rights.	A very important point is that there must always be a discussion between children and parents, which allows everyone to understand the different points of view and avoids a constant battle between the family members.
evp	battle	verb	1	C2	to try very hard to do something difficult or to fight against someone or something	Throughout the campaign, Johnson was battling health problems.	Many countries are battling with environmental problems and certain tourists feel that it is perfectly acceptable to leave their litter behind them on beaches and other public places, after all in two or three weeks they can leave it all behind them.
evp	bay	noun	1	B1	an area of water with land on three sides	San Francisco Bay	It's also possible to hire a small yacht there and have a trip round the bay.
evp	bay	noun	2	C2	to prevent someone or something being closer or causing your problems	Gunmen kept police at bay for almost four hours.	The Leary brothers are unable to cope with real life, which reinforces their innate ability to keep the world at bay and themselves untouched by life and love.
evp	beach	noun	1	A1	an area of sand or small stones next to the ocean or a lake	We spent the day at the beach.	After, I went to the beach with my family.
evp	beak	noun	1	C1	the hard part of a bird's mouth	It carried a huge stick in its beak.	It is an elegant bird, about 2 ft tall, with gray feathers, a black tail and a yellow beak.
evp	beam	noun	1	B2	a line of light shining from something	a laser beam	I was beginning to feel rather impatient when a door opened letting a beam of light come into the dark room.
evp	bean	noun	1	A1	a seed, or the pod containing seeds, of various climbing plants, eaten as a vegetable	pinto/black/kidney beans	Everybody likes to eat beans, rice, chips and meat, but on Saturday, people like a special lunch.
evp	bear	noun	1	A2	a large, strong, wild animal with thick fur	a brown/black bear	I love bears, you know.
evp	bear	verb	1	C1	to accept something unpleasant	Since you will bear most of the responsibility, you should get the rewards.	Consequently, you must bear the hassles of public transport.
evp	bear	verb	2	C1	to have or show a particular name, picture, or symbol	The shop bore his family name.	I have been to many places, but this which I will never forget about is the island Lefkada, which is located in the north-west of Greece - in the Ionian Pelagos - and, especially, the capital of it, which bears the same name.
evp	bear	verb	3	C1	to move or turn to the left or right	Bear right at the next set of traffic lights.	The taxi has to bear left at the fork and then you can see my house, 200 yards on the right side, it's a white house with the number 53.
evp	bear	verb	4	C2	to be similar to someone or something	He bears a striking resemblance to his father.	Modern buildings should bear some resemblance to the old ones and therefore complete the image of the city preserved through time.
evp	bear	verb	5	C2	to give birth to a child	She has been told that she will never bear children.	Women can still bear children at the age of 30. In the past this was not possible because either the mother or the baby would have died.
evp	bear	verb	6	C2	If something that someone does bears fruit, it produces successful results.	Some of their research is now bearing fruit, and the results are interesting.	Being friendly at work may not necessarily be easy, but it always bears fruit.
evp	bear	verb	7	C2	to accept an unpleasant or difficult situation because there is nothing you can do to improve it	I hate my job, but I'm just going to have to grin and bear it for a while.	As I couldn't simply get up and go away, I just had to grin and bear it for a little while longer.
evp	beard	noun	1	A1	the hair that grows on a man's chin	a long white beard	He has a nice beard.
evp	beat	verb	1	B1	to defeat or do better than	Simon always beats me at tennis.	Sebastian beat me 6-2.
evp	beat	verb	2	B1	When your heart beats, it makes regular movements and sounds.	By the time the doctor had arrived, his heart had stopped beating.	My heart was beating like a bell and I was really excited.
evp	beat	verb	3	B2	to hit a person or animal repeatedly	They saw him beating his dog with a stick.	He began to drink, and when he was drunk, he beat Kelly.
evp	beat	verb	4	B2	to be better than	I take the train - it beats driving for seven hours.	And finally everybody needs to realize that biking within a city always beats driving by car, concerning the time it takes to commute from point A to point B.
evp	beat	verb	5	C1	to avoid talking about something difficult or embarrassing	I decided to stop beating around the bush and told him exactly what I thought of him.	Well, let's stop beating about the bush and get to the point.
evp	beat	verb	6	C1	to mix food using quick movements	Beat the egg whites until they are stiff.	
evp	beat	verb	7	C2	to hit against something, making sound in a continuous or regular pattern	He steadily beat the drum.	The sound of the pelting rain beating against the slates made the minutes last longer than ever and my cosy sofa looked so cold and small.
evp	beat	verb	8	C2	used to emphasize that something is best	You can't beat Pedro's for a great pizza.	You can't beat their "French cuisine" she usually said, when asked why didn't she change the place.
evp	beat	verb	9	C2	in a place where few people go	I prefer to take my vacation somewhere off the beaten track.	Furthermore, in areas off the beaten track, there are not even police sometimes.
evp	beat	verb	10	B2	to attack someone by hitting or kicking them	He beat up one of the other prisoners.	He would often beat her up when he was drunk.
evp	beat	noun	1	B2	a regular movement or sound, especially that made by your heart	I put my head on his chest but I could feel no heart beat.	She started to exhale after a moment, counting the beats of her heart.
evp	beat	noun	2	B2	the main rhythm of a piece of music	The guitar comes in on the third beat.	They play rock with a very good beat.
evp	beautiful	adjective	1	A1	very attractive	a beautiful woman	It's a beautiful park.
evp	beautiful	adjective	2	A1	very pleasant	a beautiful piece of music	I like pop music but I prefer classical music because it's the most beautiful.
evp	beautifully	adverb	1	B1	in a way that is beautiful	She dresses beautifully.	My room is big and beautifully decorated.
evp	beauty	noun	1	B1	the quality of being beautiful	This is an area of outstanding natural beauty.	It's a very nice place and I wanted to record its beauty.
evp	beauty	noun	2	C2	the quality that makes something especially good or attractive	The beauty of the plan is that it won't cost anything.	
evp	bed	noun	1	A1	a piece of furniture that you sleep on	He lived in a room with only two chairs, a bed and a table.	I'd like to sell my bed.
evp	bed	noun	2	C2	the ground on the bottom of the sea, a river, etc.	the sea bed	They landed upside down on a river bed and almost everyone was killed during the fall.
evp	bed	noun	3	C2	a piece of ground that is used for growing plants, especially flowers	a flower bed	Remember my house has the number four, you can't miss it, it is a big white house with a large bed of roses just near the front door.
evp	bedroom	noun	1	A1	a room used for sleeping in	Our house has three bedrooms.	I think my T-shirt is in your bedroom.
evp	bee	noun	1	B1	a yellow and black flying insect which makes honey and can sting you	A swarm of bees flew into the garden.	Did you know that bees are endangered?
evp	beef	noun	1	B1	the meat of a cow	roast beef	They like eating beef, lamb and salad.
evp	beer	noun	1	A1	an alcoholic drink made from grain	a bottle of beer	She likes drinking beer and sometimes goes to the nightclub.
evp	before	adverb	1	A2	at an earlier time, or on a previous occasion	He said he had never seen her before.	My father never b[ought me any birthday presents before.
evp	before	adverb	2	C2	a long period of time before something	I was a vegetarian long before I met Sally.	The cups belonged to my family long before I was born and the fact they are a part of my family tradition makes them valuable in my eyes.
evp	beg	verb	1	B2	to make a very strong and urgent request	They begged for mercy.	But before she left I begged her not to tell anybody.
evp	beg	verb	2	B2	to ask someone for food or money, because you do not have any	There are more and more homeless people begging on the streets these days.	He had a shabby coat, old shoes and he was begging for money.
evp	begin	verb	1	A1	to start to happen	What time does the concert begin?	I think the class began yesterday.
evp	begin	verb	2	A2	to start to do something	The children began to cry.	We began to talk about music.
evp	begin	verb	3	B1	to have something at the start	The word "cat" begins with the letter "C."	
evp	begin	verb	4	B1	at the start of a situation	To begin with, the two girls got on well.	It wasn't stunningly beautiful, but a bed and a bathroom is really all we needed to begin with!
evp	begin	verb	5	B2	used to give the first important reason for something	To begin with, we can't afford to move.	To begin with, it doesn't pollute and I think it's time we started thinking about the environment.
evp	beginner	noun	1	A2	someone who is starting to do or learn something for the first time	I'm a complete beginner at yoga.	The book must have the vocabulary for a beginner.
evp	beginning	noun	1	A2	the first part of something or the start of something	We met at the beginning of 1998.	At the beginning of the party, we danced and sang.
evp	behave	verb	1	B1	to do or say things in a particular way	She always behaves badly at bedtime.	As always, I'll behave like a gentleman.
evp	behave	verb	2	B1	to be polite and not make a situation difficult	Did the children behave (themselves)?	Team sports can also help children to behave themselves.
evp	behavior	noun	1	B1	the way that you behave	bad/good behavior	But he answered my e-mail where I was apologizing for my behavior at his party, but he was really upset with me because I dropped his birthday cake into the pool and everyone laughed.
evp	behind	adverb	1	B1	at or to the back of someone or something	Somebody grabbed me from behind.	An old man appeared from behind wearing the same clothes as the owner of the phone and asked her for it.
evp	behind	adverb	2	C1	slower or later than someone else, or than you should be	She's behind on the rent.	Those children who do not get this at home are the ones who are behind in their schoolwork.
evp	belief	noun	1	B2	when you believe that something is true or real	a popular/common/widespread belief	At this time, tango was considered an immoral type of music; but Carlos Gardel changed this belief, and people from all over the world loved him.
evp	belief	noun	2	B2	an idea that you are certain is true	He made no secret of his belief that she would recover.	We get to know the beliefs, superstitions or the principles of other religious denominations.
evp	belief	noun	3	C2	the feeling that someone or something is effective or right	a belief in social justice	With our hectic lifestyles and complacent belief in modern medical sciences we may forget about the importance of proper eating.
evp	believe	verb	1	A2	to think that something is true, or that what someone says is true	They believe that their health has suffered because of the chemicals.	I believe him.
evp	believe	verb	2	A2	to think something, without being completely sure	"Is she coming alone?" "I believe so."	I believe it is in your bedroom.
evp	believe	verb	3	B1	to be very surprised when you see someone or something, or when you hear what someone says	I couldn't believe my ears when Dan said they were getting married.	Well, this church was extremely simple o] the outside, but when I got inside it, I couldn't believe my eyes.
evp	believe	verb	4	B1	used to say that something is true although it seems surprising	He even remembered my birthday, believe it or not.	First I visited the "Roman Bath'' which is more than 2000 years old and, believe it or not, it still works!
evp	believe	verb	5	B1	to be certain that something exists	Do you believe in ghosts?	Claire I want to tell you that we have to believe in miracles!
evp	believe	verb	6	B2	to be confident that something is effective and right	He believes in saying what he thinks.	Nowadays I don't believe in changing your decision.
evp	bell	noun	1	B1	an electrical object that makes a ringing sound when you press a button	Please ring the bell for attention.	I was relaxing at home when suddenly the bell rang.
evp	bell	noun	2	B2	a hollow, metal object, shaped like a cup, that makes a ringing sound when you hit it	the sound of church bells ringing	Then I heard the bells from the tower.
evp	bell	noun	3	C2	If a word, especially a name, rings a bell, you think you have heard it before.	Shane Watson? That name rings a bell.	Its name is Laser - I suppose it rings a bell?
evp	belong	verb	1	B2	If something belongs somewhere, that is the place it should be in.	This table belongs in the living room.	I can understand people who say that animals belong in nature.
evp	belong	verb	2	B2	to feel happy or comfortable in a situation	I spent two years in Boston but I never felt that I belonged there.	
evp	belong	verb	3	A2	If something belongs to you, you own it.	This book belongs to Sarah.	I need it back because it belongs to my cousin.
evp	belong	verb	4	B1	to be a member of a group or organization	We belong to the same tennis club.	Also, I belonged to a golf club when I went to university in Japan.
evp	belongings	noun	1	B2	the things that a person owns, especially those which can be carried	I put a few personal belongings in a bag and left the house for the last time.	Five different kings have lived there with their families and it is possible to see several of their personal belongings.
evp	below	adverb	1	A1	in a lower position than someone or something else	From the top of the skyscraper the cars below us looked like insects.	I think it's a nice place, because you have a great view of the other mountains and the country below you.
evp	below	adverb	2	B1	less than a particular amount or level	His marks in English have been below average for some time now.	We have to learn that it is not natural for a lion to be living in a country where, in winter, the temperature can fall below zero.
evp	below	adverb	3	C2	lower in rank	Monica is a grade below me.	[With] him being only 37 years old and having been promoted to the second level below the board of directors of a well-known international company, he seems like a good example of a successful person, at least in this area of success.
evp	belt	noun	1	A2	a long, thin piece of leather, cloth, or plastic that you wear around your waist	She buckled/fastened her belt around her waist.	Juliana gave me a pink belt.
evp	belt	noun	2	C2	to spend less money	Since I lost my job we've all had to tighten our belts.	All this costs money and where do we get this extra money from but from the tax payers, who once again have to tighten their belts.
evp	bench	noun	1	B2	a long seat for two or more people, usually made of wood or metal	a park bench	At 1 p.m. Paul was sitting on a bench and waiting for Julia.
evp	bend	verb	1	B2	to move your body or part of your body so that it is not straight	Bend your knees when lifting heavy objects.	My friend was bending over the table laughing hysterically.
evp	bend	verb	2	B2	to (cause to) curve	The trees were bending in the wind.	I saw fir trees bending in half and 500-year-old oaks shedding their leaves.
evp	bend	verb	3	C1	to try very hard to do something	They bent over backwards to make us feel at home.	They won't bend over backwards to look for a quick solution, but sooner or latter the matter will be solved.
evp	bend	noun	1	B2	a curved part of something	There's a bend in the pipe so you can't see from one end to the other.	The other car disappeared around a sharp bend and when we came a]roun it, we saw that the car had stopped in the middle of the road.
evp	beneficial	adjective	1	B2	helpful, useful or good	The improvement in sales figures had a beneficial effect on the company as a whole.	To sum up, team sports are beneficial to children so if the schools they attend do not have any, they should take up something]
evp	benefit	noun	1	B1	something that helps you or gives you an advantage	The discovery of oil brought many benefits to the town.	Taking everything into account, the drawbacks far outweigh its benefits.
evp	benefit	noun	2	B1	a helpful service employees receive in addition to their pay	health/medical benefits	
evp	benefit	noun	3	C2	to choose to believe what someone tells you even though it may be wrong or a lie	She says her train was late, so I suppose we'd better give her the benefit of the doubt.	Every time our parents tell us ".. have you thought about it, are you sure you are not making a mistake?" we just answer "sure I have, no problem." Next time they do, let's give them the benefit of the doubt and let's think twice about the subject.
evp	benefit	noun	4	C2	in order to help someone	We bought the piano for the children's benefit.	Needless to say, I hope you take into consideration all of this, not only for Gustavo's benefit, but also for the benefit of the astronaut training program and the world.
evp	benefit	verb	1	B2	to be helped by something or to help someone	I feel that I have benefited greatly from her experience.	I am sure that the café would benefit a great deal from a non-smoking-area.
evp	berry	noun	1	B2	a small round fruit on particular plants and trees	I usually scatter a few berries on my muesli.	Every day we were swimming, fishing, picking mushrooms and berries, hunting and making fires to prepare food.
evp	besides	adverb	1	B1	used to give another reason for something	She won't mind your being late - besides, it's hardly your fault.	I think that I'm going to buy "Troy" because it looks to me to be a great movie - besides, it reminds me of your vacations in Mexico.
evp	besides	adverb	2	B1	in addition to	Besides looking after the children, she runs a successful business.	But besides playing, you can also sit i] the "club lounge", where you can drink something with your friends or just play cards.
evp	best	adjective	1	A1	(superlative of good) better than any other	She was my best friend.	She likes to meet me every day because we are best friends.
evp	best	adjective	2	A2	something that you write at the end of a letter	With best wishes, Anna	With best wishes,
evp	best	adjective	3	C1	the thing that is best, if you cannot have or do the thing you really want	Coaching baseball is the next best thing to playing.	For many working people, there is hardly time to cook and prepare your dinner, so the next best thing is to rush into a M[cD]onalds' or Burger King.
evp	best	adjective	4	C2	Someone’s best bet is the action most likely to be successful.	If you want to get to the theater on time, your best bet is to get a cab.	The international cuisine chef can whip up some delicious creations from time to time; but your best bet is to go for one of the delicious steaks served.
evp	best	adverb	1	A1	(superlative of well) most, or more than any other	Which of the songs did you like best?	I like Australia best.
evp	best	adverb	2	B1	(superlative of well) in the most suitable or satisfactory way	I sleep best with the window open.	It would be best if you came on Wednesday 27th.
evp	best	adverb	3	C2	to be the most suitable person to have responsibility and make important decisions	When it comes to dealing with my own son, I think I know best.	How true is that expression "Father knows best." If my father was alive today he would probably be laughing his head off.
evp	best	noun	1	A2	used to say that you hope someone will be happy, healthy, successful, etc., often when saying goodbye	Well, all the best - it was nice meeting you.	I want to wish you all the best!
evp	best	noun	2	B1	someone or something that is better than any other	I like all of Hitchcock's films, but I think "Notorious" is the best.	The trip was the best I have ever been on in my life.
evp	best	noun	3	B1	at the highest level of achievement or quality	The article is an example of journalism at its best.	I enjoyed this trip because we got to stay in the countryside and see nature at its very best.
evp	best	noun	4	B1	to make the greatest effort possible	I did my best to persuade him.	And the police said that they will try their best.
evp	best	noun	5	B2	to try to be positive about a situation you do not like but cannot change	Our hotel room is pretty small, but we'll just have to make the best of it.	Unfortunately I don't have very much spare time so we will have to arrange it carefully in order to make the best of your time in London.
evp	best	noun	6	C1	to have the advantages of two different situations	Living in the country and working in the city you have the best of both worlds.	Only those that can afford to live in the suburban areas can combine the best of both worlds and they tend to be rather affluent.
evp	best	noun	7	C2	used to show that the most positive way of considering something is still not good	If he drops the course now, at best he’ll get an incomplete, and he could fail.	Then, due to the social standards, the old find themselves being abandoned and helpless. At best, such people are hospitalized.
evp	best	noun	8	C2	If something is for the best, it seems unpleasant now, but will improve a situation in the future.	Moving to a smaller apartment really was for the best.	It's a kind of sad thing to think about but maybe it's for the best.
evp	best	noun	9	C2	to cause someone's best qualities to show	This chance to work with young people has really brought out the best in him.	TV can be a babysitter, but such a relationship is not going to bring out the best in a child.
evp	best	noun	10	C2	used to show that something is not good when it is the best it can be	He's not exactly patient at the best of times.	They knew that even at the best of times he looked unpleasant but now he was of a completely different appearance]
evp	bestseller	noun	1	B2	a very popular book that many people have bought	His latest book is likely to be another bestseller.	Maybe your parents could bring me one of the newest bestsellers, which haven't been translated in]t Polish yet.
evp	betray	verb	1	B2	to behave in a dishonest or cruel way to someone who trusts you	She felt betrayed by her mother's lack of support.	He couldn't believe that his best friend had betrayed him.
evp	better	adjective	1	A1	(comparative of good) of a higher quality, more effective, or more enjoyable than something or someone else	She found a better job.	It is a better pen than others.
evp	better	adjective	2	A1	healthy, or less ill than before	Do you feel better now?	I visited my cousin last night in the hospital he was ill. He is now better.
evp	better	adjective	3	C2	to look old or be in bad condition because of a lot of use	This jacket has seen better days.	In the dense fog he managed to see a man standing nearby, whose clothes had definitely seen better days.
evp	better	adverb	1	A2	(comparative of well) to a greater degree, or in a more successful or more effective way	I'd like to get to know him better.	But she expl[ained everything very clearly, so I understood better.
evp	better	adverb	2	A2	used to say what someone should do	You'd better hurry or you'll miss the train.	You'd better bring a notebook.
evp	better	adverb	3	C2	to have enough experience not to do something stupid or something that will not achieve anything	I thought she'd listen to me - I should have known better.	Surely two grown-ups should have known better than to shout at each other at the top of their lungs.
evp	between	adverb	1	C1	in the space that separates two people, places, or things	The wood is in neat piles with newspaper placed in between.	There is a shuttle bus from the airport straight to the main station with only one stop in between.
evp	between	adverb	2	C1	in the period of time that separates two events or times	There's a train at 6:15 and one at 10:30 but nothing in between.	Besides, there is research that proves that people cannot work for more than two hours at a time] They can't concentrate that long and they need to rest their minds for short periods in between.
evp	between	adverb	3	C2	not happening or existing very often	Opportunities like this are few and far between.	Jobs in those days were few and far between and for a number of years he was alternating between temporary jobs and unemployment benefits.
evp	beware	verb	1	C1	used in order to warn someone to be careful	Beware of the dog.	Although it's fun to surf, beware of the danger...
evp	beyond	adverb	1	C1	at or past the far side of something	From the top of the hill we could see our house and the woods beyond.	The airport-bus will take you to the center of Ostersund where I live and even beyond.
evp	beyond	adverb	2	C2	continuing after a particular time or date	The dispute is likely to continue into March and beyond.	The fact of living longer allows people to share part of their lives with their children, their grandchildren and sometimes even one generation beyond.
evp	bias	noun	1	C2	when you support or oppose someone or something in an unfair way because you are influenced by your personal opinions	Some people feel news coverage always reflects a reporter’s bias.	It is necessary to get rid of all our previous bias when we go to a foreign country, to achieve a better understanding of the local culture.
evp	biased	adjective	1	C1	showing unfair support for or opposition to someone or something because of your personal opinions	The newspapers gave a biased report of the meeting.	Maybe it is not an original idea, but I must admit my choice was a little bit biased, since I am reading a book about this era at the moment.
evp	bicycle	noun	1	A2	a two-wheeled vehicle that you sit on and move by turning the two pedals	I go to work by bicycle.	I want to sell my bicycle.
evp	bid	noun	1	C1	an attempt to get or achieve something	He was defeated in his bid for governor.	The state school premises are in derelict condition. Sometimes the students' parents as a group try to raise money in a bid to solve this problem, but their efforts are never enough.
evp	bid	noun	2	C1	an offer to do a job for a particular amount of money when you are competing with other people to do it	We put in a bid for the stadium contract.	From the three bids received, it emerges that Kavanagh Catering Services would be able to provide a functional and cheap service, which is considered one of the most important aspects by the students.
evp	bid	noun	3	C2	an offer to pay a particular amount of money for something	I made a bid of $150 for the painting.	
evp	bid	verb	1	C2	to offer to pay an amount of money for something	They bid $500 million for the company.	As a Tea Company chairman, he buys his tea in Calcutta or Colombo, and generally bids at the right price.
evp	big	adjective	1	A1	large in size or amount	He's a big man.	I got a lot of presents: CDs, DVDs, photos, clothes and a big blue bear.
evp	big	adjective	2	A2	your older brother/sister	My big sister is coming to pick me up.	It was given to me by my big brother and I loved it.
evp	big	adjective	3	A2	important or serious	He had a big decision to make.	But there was a very big problem: she has a boyfriend.
evp	big	adjective	4	C1	successful or popular	The program's been a
big hit with young children.	Of course, the many traditional craft stalls were a big hit also, and there were hardly any things left!
evp	bike	noun	1	A1	a bicycle	He was on his bike.	We can go for a walk, ride a bike, or play football and other sports.
evp	bike	noun	2	B1	a motorcycle	He came on his bike.	
evp	bikini	noun	1	B2	a piece of clothing with two parts that women wear for swimming	I packed my bikini for the beach.	Thelma was right: her bikini was really too big for her.
evp	bilingual	adjective	1	C1	using or able to speak two languages	a bilingual dictionary	As I work as a bilingual secretary in a multinational company, I use English regularly.
evp	bill	noun	1	A2	a piece of paper that tells you how much you must pay for something you have bought or for a service you have used	an electricity/gas/phone bill	I need it because I must pay the bills.
evp	bill	noun	2	B1	a piece of paper money	a twenty-dollar bill	If your University has Internet access, there might be a way to earn lots of dollar bills.
evp	bill	noun	3	C2	to pay for something that costs a lot of money	His parents can’t afford to foot the bill for his college education.	Only one problem arouse, which is who is going to foot the bill because such a factory is quite expensive.
evp	billion	noun	1	B2	the number 1,000,000,000	Cosmetics is a billion dollar industry.	There she was, 70m above the sea with a crazy man with a gun behind her and billions of thoughts in her head.
evp	bind	verb	1	C2	to tie something together with string, rope, etc.	His hands were bound behind his back.	Take this rope and bind yourselves together, so as not to lose someone.
evp	bind	verb	2	C2	to unite people	Culture and language bind people together.	And even if people mostly cheer for athletes from their own country, it can be seen as a safe outlet for nationalist feelings, that bind a country together without turning to racism, for example.
evp	biography	noun	1	B1	the life story of a person written by someone else	He wrote a biography of Winston Churchill.	I found Orwell's biography so I bought it.
evp	biological	adjective	1	B2	connected with the natural processes of living things	the biological sciences	Paul always knew that the Watsons weren't his biological parents.
evp	biology	noun	1	A2	the scientific study of living things	molecular/cellular biology	Dear Gary, Last night I think I left my biology book at your house.
evp	bird	noun	1	A1	an animal that has wings and feathers, and is usually able to fly	caged/wild birds	I saw lots of birds in the trees.
evp	birth	noun	1	A2	the time when a baby is born	He weighed seven pounds at birth.	It begins with the birth of his sister Margana and ends with his death.
evp	birth	noun	2	B2	When a woman or an animal gives birth, she produces a baby from her body.	She gave birth to twins.	The most important person in my life is the person who gave birth to me, my mother.
evp	birth	noun	3	B2	born in a particular place or with a particular nationality	I grew up in Paris, but I'm Italian by birth.	I am an eighteen year old college student and I am Portuguese by birth.
evp	birth	noun	4	C1	the beginning of something	the birth of modern science	Pericles was the man who achieved the birth of democracy.
evp	birthday	noun	1	A1	the day on which someone was born, or the same date each year	Happy birthday!	I have just had a birthday.
evp	bite	verb	1	B1	to cut something using your teeth	He bit into the apple.	A snake bit me o] my leg, but that's ok.
evp	bite	noun	1	B2	a piece taken from food when you bite it	She took a bite of her pizza.	When Alice took a bite out of the cake, something hard touched her teeth.
evp	bite	noun	2	B2	an injury caused when an animal or insect bites you	mosquito bites	As far as your question about our sleeping is concerned, I wouldn't mind either staying in rooms or tents, but since you ask me to express my preference, I would suggest staying in rooms, in order to avoid insect bites.
evp	bite	noun	3	C2	a small meal	I just want to grab a bite to eat.	It all went smoothly until 2 o'clock when they stopped for a break and a bite to eat.
evp	bitter	adjective	1	B1	with an unpleasantly sharp taste	a bitter taste	And due to these bizarre situations I went through as a little boy, everything related to shopping seems like a bitter liquid which I'm forced to drink.
evp	bitter	adjective	2	B2	angry and upset because of something bad that has happened that you cannot forget	I feel very bitter about my childhood and the way I was treated.	What can be more real than when your lover is gone or taken away your own soul is also alone, bitter and dark and there is nothing else than feelings of revenge, anger, frustration and sadness?
evp	bitter	adjective	3	B2	full of hate or anger	a bitter argument/dispute	Every time they met, a bitter feeling of hatred bloomed in her throat.
evp	bitter	adjective	4	B2	making you feel very disappointed	Failing the final exam was a bitter disappointment for me.	Now, I've already recovered from this bitter experience.
evp	bitter	adjective	5	B2	extremely cold	a bitter wind	
evp	bitter	adjective	6	C2	If you do something to/till/until the bitter end, you continue it until it is finished, although it is difficult and takes a long time.	The president fought for his plan to the bitter end.	We are willing to talk and find alternatives to the situation, but we are also ready to fight till the bitter end to stand for our rights.
evp	bizarre	adjective	1	B2	very strange and unusual	bizarre behavior	Things are sometimes quite bizarre, aren't they?
evp	black	adjective	1	A1	being the darkest color there is, like the color of coal or of a very dark night	black shoes	Lisa gave me a black t-shirt.
evp	black	adjective	2	A2	Someone who is black has the dark skin typical of people from Africa.	black culture	
evp	black	noun	1	A2	the color of coal or of the sky on a very dark night	She always dresses in black.	O[h]! [Y]eah try wearing black because we're gonna be dirty.
evp	blackboard	noun	1	A2	a large board with a dark surface that a teacher writes on with chalk	She wrote her name on the blackboard.	
evp	blackmail	noun	1	C2	when someone forces you to do something or to pay them money, by saying they will tell another person something that you want to keep secret	She was charged with blackmail.	She knows exactly how to handle him, seducing him, accusing him of ingratitude or using emotional blackmail.
evp	blackmail	verb	1	C2	to force someone to do something by using blackmail	They used the photographs to blackmail her into spying for them.	It's all over, but she is blackmailing me.
evp	blade	noun	1	B2	the flat part on a knife or similar tool or weapon, with a very thin edge used for cutting	a sword with a steel blade	Suddenly she felt the blade on her neck and she screamed in panic.
evp	blame	verb	1	B1	to say or think that someone or something is responsible for something bad that has happened	Don't blame me if you miss the bus!	She thought that I would blame her so she decided to write me a letter.
evp	blame	verb	2	C1	to be responsible for something bad that has happened	Poor housing is to blame for many of their health problems.	Nevertheless, the child is not to blame for this and neither are his parents.
evp	blame	verb	3	C2	used to say that you understand and accept the reason for what someone is doing	"I think I'll go home early." "I don't blame you - you look really tired."	You might regard me as an immature, seventeen year old girl for decorating my diary. Honestly I do not blame you for that.
evp	blame	noun	1	B2	when people say or think that someone or something is responsible for something bad	The manager should take the blame for the team's defeat.	In addition to all the above I want to tell you that I was very pleased with the tour guide and I don't want to put the blame on her.
evp	bland	adjective	1	C2	If food is bland, it does not have much taste.	The soup was a bit bland.	In the evenings they usually attended boring dinner parties, where bland, soggy food was served, and the other guests were at least 20 years older than her and rather snobbish and stiff.
evp	bland	adjective	2	C2	not interesting or exciting	bland statements	Peeping through the viewer she focused her gaze on the bland face of the man outside.
evp	blank	adjective	1	B1	empty or clear, or containing no information or mark	a blank paper/page/form	We must bring a pencil and blank paper.
evp	blank	adjective	2	B2	If your mind goes blank, you suddenly cannot remember or think of something.	When she asked me his name, I just went blank.	My mind went blank, I couldn't utter a word.
evp	blank	adjective	3	C2	showing no feeling or understanding	a blank expression	The old woman froze, her blank gaze staring in Leila's direction.
evp	blank	noun	1	C1	an empty space on a test or form where an answer must be written	fill in the blanks	I have always thought that a person which is incredibly good at filling in blanks is not necessarily also an intelligent person.
evp	blanket	noun	1	A2	a thick, warm cover that you sleep under	She put an extra blanket on the bed.	I think I['ll] buy some new pillows, a duvet and a warm blanket.
evp	blanket	noun	2	C2	a thick layer of something	a blanket of snow/dust	I do remember it rained heavily and the sky was covered with a blanket of gray.
evp	bleak	adjective	1	C2	If a situation is bleak, there is little or no hope for the future.	The future is looking bleak for small businesses struggling with debts.	This may seem like a very bleak future for many young people today.
evp	bleak	adjective	2	C2	If a place is bleak, it is cold, empty and not attractive.	a bleak landscape	They lack basic training and experience and thus often get lost or hurt in bleak and isolated areas, giving the mountain rescue teams a hard time.
evp	bleed	verb	1	B1	to lose blood	Your arm is bleeding.	When I arrived, he was o] the ground bleeding and with his arm broken.
evp	blend	noun	1	C2	a combination of two or more things	Their music is a blend of jazz and African rhythms.	I suppose this is a blend of entertainment and the darker sides of human nature, like envy or curiosity.
evp	blind	adjective	1	B1	not able to see	She's been blind since birth.	She told him she was blind and she couldn't find her dog.
evp	blind	adjective	2	C2	to not notice something, or not want to notice something	Drivers who speed are often blind to the risks to other drivers.	Not only is she completely oblivious of his inner feelings and thoughts, but she also seems to be blind to what is going on around her.
evp	blind	noun	1	C1	people who are blind	He went to a school for the blind.	I write from Helpers, a Uruguayan Enterprise specializing in selling products for both the blind and the mute, and whose offerings your company in Britain is interested in selling.
evp	blindness	noun	1	C1	the state of being blind	In its later stages the disease causes blindness.	Apart from his blindness, his health has worsened in general.
evp	blindness	noun	2	C2	the state of not noticing something, or not wanting to notice or understand it	My blindness to what was happening led me to make a bad decision.	His mother and Mister Hooper, with their blindness and insensitivity, do not see what is going on between the two boys.
evp	blink	verb	1	B2	to open and close both of your eyes quickly	You've got something in your eye - try blinking a few times.	Her eyes were blinking as she was looking at the bright sunlight outside the window.
evp	blink	noun	1	C2	extremely quickly	In the blink of an eye, he was gone.	I got dressed i] the blink of an eye and I got down to the kitchen almost rolling down the stairs.
evp	blister	noun	1	C2	a painful, raised area of skin with liquid inside, that you get if your skin has been rubbed or burned, or a similar area on a painted surface	I've got a blister on my toe.	Some people weren't really walking any more. The blisters and aching muscles gave them too much stress.
evp	block	noun	1	A2	the distance along a street from where one road crosses it to the place where the next road crosses it	The museum is just six blocks away.	So you have to go along 3 blocks and turn on your left and just in front of you is the Cathedral and next to the Cathedral is the Zocalo.
evp	block	noun	2	A2	the land and buildings on a part of street between two other streets that cross it, or an area of land and buildings inside a rectangle formed by four streets	My friend and I live on the same block.	We took a walk around the block and we had lunch together.
evp	block	noun	3	B2	a solid piece of hard material, usually in the shape of a square or rectangle	a block of ice/stone/wood	It is like an enormous block of stone!
evp	block	noun	4	C2	something that makes it difficult to move or make progress	Lack of money has been the main stumbling block.	Very often students are asked to present a certain subject, but the main stumbling block is that they are not given the knowledge of how to do it properly.
evp	block	verb	1	B2	to prevent movement through or past something	A fallen tree is blocking the road.	It took over three hours because there was a car accident and the street was blocked for two hours.
evp	block	verb	2	C1	to be between someone and the thing they are looking at, so that they cannot see	A pillar was blocking my view.	You cannot have a panoramic view of the mountains any more because buildings block it and the people in the nearby village think only of profit.
evp	block	verb	3	C2	to stop something from happening or making progress	The city council has blocked plans for a mall.	
evp	blog	noun	1	B1	a record of your activities or opinions that you put on the Internet for other people to read and that you change regularly	There are two or three blogs that I read on a daily basis.	
evp	blog	verb	1	B1	to write or add material to a blog	He blogs about living with the disease.	
evp	blogger	noun	1	B1	someone who writes a blog	Bloggers everywhere are commenting on the issue.	
evp	blond	adjective	1	A2	with pale yellow hair	blond hair	She is 40 years old and she has blond hair.
evp	blood	noun	1	A2	the red liquid that flows around your body	a blood test/sample	I opened the door and screamed - in front of me was a man standing with hands covered in blood.
evp	blood	noun	2	C1	new people in an organization who will provide new ideas and energy	We need some new blood in the organization.	Regardless of the age limit many companies encourage employees in high positions to retire after 55 as they want some new blood or probably a new look for the company.
evp	blood	noun	3	C2	in a cruel way, without showing any emotion	He shot three policemen in cold blood.	Returning to the story, when I arrived, I went directly to Hillton Avenue where I should have met 005, but when I arrived at the meeting point I found him lying on the floor with two shots in his back; he had been murdered in cold blood.
evp	blood	noun	4	C2	the family or place that you come from	I've got some Spanish blood in me.	I have a background in my blood which, I believe, explains my way of thinking: my mother is Dutch and my father is half from Alsace, half from Hungary.
evp	blood	noun	5	C2	If something makes your blood run cold, it frightens you very much.	I heard a tapping on the window which made my blood run cold.	This thought scared me and made my blood run cold.
evp	blood	noun	6	C2	to make you extremely angry	The way they have treated those people makes my blood boil.	Paul said something repulsive, with a cold light in his eyes, and it made her blood boil.
evp	blood	noun	7	C2	a member of your family	I can't hate him - he's my own flesh and blood.	On the other hand, another problem old people have to face is a feeling of not being useful to society and what proves this is that they are put into old people's homes even by their own flesh and blood.
evp	bloody	adjective	1	B2	covered in blood	a bloody nose	The police found a bloody knife under his pillow.
evp	bloody	adjective	2	C1	violent and involving a lot of blood and injuries	a bloody war	About 50,000 Romans died during this bloody battle, including the famous Roman Commander Varus.
evp	blouse	noun	1	A1	a piece of clothing for women that is like a shirt	sleeveless/long-sleeved blouses	I'll wear a black blouse, jeans and black boots.
evp	blow	verb	1	B1	If the wind blows, it moves and makes currents of air.	The wind was blowing harder every minute.	Sometimes a cool wind blows, and Bodrum is like heaven with many handsome boys, different kinds of shops, fresh air and clear sea.
evp	blow	verb	2	B1	to force air out through your mouth	She blew on her coffee before taking a sip.	
evp	blow	verb	3	B1	to clear your nose by forcing air through it into a piece of paper or cloth	He blew his nose loudly.	
evp	blow	verb	4	C2	to make a sound by forcing air out of your mouth and through an instrument	Ann blew a few notes on the trumpet.	I had never played an instrument before, but when I put the flute to my mouth and blew, it was as though I had played it all my life and that it had always been mine.
evp	blow	verb	5	C2	If you blow it or blow your chance, you lose an opportunity to do something by doing or saying the wrong thing.	I guess I blew it when I told my teacher I didn't care what grade she gave me.	I'm giving you one last chance. If you blow it, you'll be sent to an Institution which treats people like you.
evp	blow	verb	6	C2	If something blows your mind, you are very excited or surprised by it.	There was one scene in the movie that really blew my mind.	"MOMO," written by Michael Ende, is a book that blew my mind as a child and as an adult, I have read it many times, but the last time has been a while now.
evp	blow	verb	7	B1	If something blows away, or if the wind blows something away, that thing moves because the wind blows it.	The letter blew away and I had to run after it.	
evp	blow	verb	8	B1	If something blows down, or if the wind blows something down, that thing falls to the ground because the wind blows it.	Two huge trees had blown down in the storm.	To make matters worse, the tree that was standing near the bus stop was suddenly blown down by the wind.
evp	blow	verb	9	B1	If a flame blows out, or if you blow it out, it stops burning because you or the wind have blown it.	The candle blew out and we were left in darkness.	[On my birthday,] I open my presents, blow out candles, play games and more.
evp	blow	verb	10	B1	to fill something such as a balloon or tire with air	I spent the whole morning blowing up balloons for Joe's party.	I quickly helped others to decorate the hall - we blew up as many balloons as we could and sprayed them gold and silver.
evp	blow	verb	11	B1	to destroy something or kill someone with a bomb, or to be destroyed or killed by a bomb	They threatened to blow up the plane if their demands were not met.	He said that a bomb had blown up in our hotel and that a lot of people were injured.
evp	blow	noun	1	C2	a hard hit with a hand or a weapon	A sharp blow on the chest sent him spinning to the floor.	He was really starting to panic when he felt a hard blow to his head.
evp	blow	noun	2	C2	an unexpected event that has a damaging effect on someone or something	Losing his job was a severe blow to his confidence.	Douglas, due to his callousness or because it had been too great a blow for him, was unable to understand or assimilate the fact, so he just went on, doing his duty to his country and his people as before.
evp	blue	adjective	1	A1	being the same color as the sky when there are no clouds	a dark/light/pale blue jacket	I like her long brown hair and blue eyes.
evp	blue	adjective	2	C2	sad	I was just feeling blue.	Do you feel the need to dress, behave, and consume the same products as your friends? Are you the kind of person who goes shopping when you feel blue or a little morose?
evp	blue	noun	1	A2	a blue color	There's a lot of blue in this room.	I want my bedroom to be painted in yellow and blue.
evp	blue	noun	2	C1	If something happens out of the blue, it is completely unexpected.	An old fried of mine from college called me out of the blue yesterday.	Dear Kim, I was extremely happy when I received your letter out of the blue.
evp	blunt	adjective	1	C2	not sharp	a blunt knife	A dead woman lying on the floor, her face covered in blood as if she had been beaten repeatedly with a blunt object.
evp	blunt	adjective	2	C2	saying exactly what you think without caring about people's feelings	blunt questions/criticism	She knows what kind of questions the viewers want answered and asks them without being rude or blunt.
evp	blush	verb	1	B2	to become pink in the face, usually from embarrassment	He blushes every time she speaks to him.	But there is one special "embarrassing moment" that even today I blush when I think about it.
evp	board	noun	1	A1	a surface on the wall of a classroom that a teacher writes on	a white board	
evp	board	noun	2	A2	a piece of wood, plastic, etc. on a wall where information can be put	I stuck the notice up on the board.	The information is posted on the information board, and the class is every Monday from 5pm to 7pm.
evp	board	noun	3	A2	a flat piece of wood, cardboard, etc. for playing games on	a chess board	I got a chess board, Harry Potter and the Order of Phoenix, some photo frames, wall hangings and a lot of other gifts.
evp	board	noun	4	B1	a flat piece of wood, plastic, etc. used for a particular purpose	Cut the vegetables on a chopping board.	That was really nice and sometimes really funny, because we had some people trying to surf, but they couldn't stand up on the board for at least five seconds.
evp	board	noun	5	B1	on a boat, train, aircraft, etc.	There were 230 people on board the plane.	I caught a taxi and went to airport. After I checked in, I was on board.
evp	board	noun	6	B2	meals that are provided at a place where you stay	How much do they charge for room and board?	Thank you for board and lodging.
evp	board	noun	7	C1	a group of people who officially control a company or organization, or a particular type of business activity	She is on the boards of several large companies.	We will try to get a subsidy during the next Board of Directors meeting]
evp	board	noun	8	C2	happening or having an effect on everyone or everything in every area	The improvement has been across the board, with all divisions reporting increased profits.	Children in separate schools get on with things regardless of it being work for boys or girls, which can be quite positive especially in today's lifestyles where chores are done across the board.
evp	board	verb	1	B1	to get onto or allow people to get onto a boat, train or aircraft	She boarded the plane to Australia.	We all boarded the train.
evp	board game	noun	1	A2	a game such as chess that is played on a board	It rained all day so we played lots of board games.	My parents gave me a camera and others gave me books, clothes and board games.
evp	boast	verb	1	B2	to talk with too much pride about what you have done or what you own	He didn't talk about his exam score because other people might think he was boasting.	Later that evening I went home boasting about my success.
evp	boast	verb	2	C2	If a place boasts something good, it has it.	New York boasts some of the best museums in the world.	The park boasts a picturesque lake with swans and ducks and a walled formal garden.
evp	boat	noun	1	A1	a vehicle for traveling on water	a fishing boat	We can go there by boat.
evp	boat	noun	2	C2	to do or say something that changes a situation in a way that causes problems	They seemed very happy and I didn't want to rock the boat.	But let's not rock the boat. Our preposterous cravings and wishes might become our down]fall
evp	boat	noun	3	C2	to be in the same unpleasant situation as other people	She complains that she doesn't have enough money, but we're all in the same boat.	Unemployment and its consequences is still a major problem. Now we are in the same boat.
evp	boat	noun	4	C2	to be too late to do or get something	I'm afraid you've missed the boat. All the concert tickets have been sold.	What if she never had another chance? What if she missed the boat? Overcome by the anxiety and the lack of sleep, the first thing she did in the morning was to pick up two of her best poems and put them in an envelope.
evp	body	noun	1	A1	the whole physical structure that forms a person or animal	A good diet and plenty of exercise will help you to keep your body healthy.	I think swimming is good for my body.
evp	body	noun	2	A2	a dead person	A body was washed up on the beach last week.	I cried a lot next to his cold body.
evp	body	noun	3	B1	the main part of a person's or animal's body, without the head, arms and legs	The dog had a thin body and short legs.	There was a black spider with long legs and a fat round body near my head.
evp	body	noun	4	C2	an official group of people who work together	the sport's regulatory body	This progress is also facilitated by companies and organisations that are represented in many countries, institutions that tend to be controlled by centrally defined policies or a single governing body.
evp	boil	verb	1	B1	If a liquid boils, or if you boil it, it reaches the temperature where bubbles rise up in it and it produces steam.	I had to boil the water before drinking it.	First he saw his mother cooking and she was chopping the vegetables with her hands, after that she started to boil the water with her own body heat, just puting her hand next to the cup.
evp	boil	verb	2	B1	to cook food in water that is boiling	Boil the potatoes until soft.	I teach them how to swim, how to boil rice without electrical equipment and so on.
evp	boil	verb	3	B1	If a container of liquid boils, or if you boil it, it reaches the temperature where bubbles rise up in it and it produces steam.	The pot's boiling.	
evp	boil	verb	4	C2	to make you extremely angry	The way they have treated those people makes my blood boil.	Paul said something repulsive, with a cold light in his eyes, and it made her blood boil.
evp	boiled	adjective	1	B1	cooked in water that is boiling	boiled potatoes	We ordered pork chops, boiled potatoes, greens, and apple pie.
evp	boiling	adjective	1	B2	very hot	It's boiling in this room!	I wouldn't like a job like that, especially in the summer, when it's boiling hot.
evp	bold	adjective	1	B2	strong in color or shape and therefore easy to notice	bold colors/letters	It had some advertisements and I could read something written in bold words.
evp	bold	adjective	2	B2	not frightened of taking risks	She was a bold and fearless climber.	That was the punishment for being bold!
evp	boldly	adverb	1	B2	in a way that is brave or very confident	The President had already boldly declared victory.	One boldly ventures where none of their family members have been before in search of a better lifestyle, good weather...
evp	bomb	noun	1	B1	a weapon that explodes and causes damage	The bomb exploded/went off near a busy market.	A bomb had exploded and that boy rescued me from the accident.
evp	bomb	verb	1	B1	to attack a place using bombs	This building was bombed a few years ago.	Houses had been bombed during the war and nothing was reconstructed.
evp	bomber	noun	1	B2	a person who uses bombs	Rajiv Gandhi is believed to have been killed by a suicide bomber.	
evp	bomber	noun	2	C2	an aircraft that drops bombs	He flew bombers in the war.	During the war... the terror of the German bombers, the sound of destruction all around, bombs exploding, people crying and dying.
evp	bombing	noun	1	B2	an attack or several attacks using bombs	The city came under heavy bombing.	In fact, despite the number of plane accidents and bombing attempts on airplanes, it is the safest way to travel.
evp	bond	noun	1	B2	an interest, experience, or feeling that makes people feel connected	the bond between the mother and baby	The strong bond among the family members makes them feel secure and confident.
evp	bond	verb	1	C2	to develop a strong relationship with someone	Physical contact helps a mother bond with her baby.	Another aspect is the fact that it is far more easier to just spend money on your children than to actually bond with them.
evp	bone	noun	1	B1	one of the hard pieces that make the structure inside a human or animal	The X-ray showed a broken bone in his left hand.	I saw things like dinosaur bones, mummies, etc.
evp	bone	noun	2	C2	something that people argue about	Housework is a major bone of contention in our house.	Prices have always been the bone of contention among the managers.
evp	bonus	noun	1	B2	another pleasant thing in addition to something you were expecting	I love the job, and it's an added bonus that it's so close to home.	[A]s a bonus we'll have staff discounts on books and CDs.
evp	bonus	noun	2	B2	an extra amount of money that you are given, especially because you have worked hard	a Christmas bonus	My employer said if I pass my exam, he will give me a bonus of fifty pounds.
evp	book	noun	1	A1	a set of attached pages in a cover, with words or pictures that tell a story or provide information	I've read all his books.	I like reading books in the library.
evp	book	noun	2	B1	a set of attached pages in a cover, which are blank to write or draw on or have spaces to record information	I need to get a composition/exercise book for writing class.	You have to bring with you some pencils for drawing and a drawing book.
evp	book	noun	3	C2	a set of stamps, tickets, etc. that are sold together inside a cover	I'll get a book of stamps when I go to the post office tomorrow.	
evp	book	noun	4	C2	to not decide what someone or something is like only by looking at them	You know, his desk is a mess but don't judge a book by it's cover, he does careful, detailed work.	I'm simply pointing out one should never judge a book by it's cover as things aren't always what they seem.
evp	book	noun	5	C2	to do something exactly according to the rules	The lawyers want to make sure we've done everything strictly by the book.	The upper-class people always do things by the book, follow the rules and the conventions and therefore are stand-offish and cold.
evp	book	verb	1	B1	to arrange to use or do something at a particular time in the future	You need to book your flight before the fares go up.	They told me that it's better to book a room in advance.
evp	book	verb	2	B1	to arrange for someone to stay at a hotel	She booked me into a hotel uptown.	You all have been booked into the "Palace Hotel" which is one of the most comfortable hotels in town.
evp	bookcase	noun	1	A1	a piece of furniture with shelves for putting books on	The gardening books are on/in that bookcase on the left.	I left my passport at your house in the living-room on the bookcase, and my flight will be tomorrow evening, so I can't get my plane If I don't have it.
evp	booklet	noun	1	B2	a small, thin book that contains information	The tourist office has booklets about the area.	I would really appreciate it if you could send me a booklet describing all outdoor and indoor activities.
evp	bookmark	noun	1	B2	a way of marking an Internet website so that you can find it easily	Add this website to your bookmarks.	
evp	bookmark	verb	1	B2	to mark an Internet website on your computer so that you can find it easily	I've bookmarked the page.	
evp	bookshelf	noun	1	A2	a shelf that you put books on	There's a bookshelf above our bed.	There are many books on my bookshelf.
evp	bookstore	noun	1	A1	a store where books are sold	We are going to the bookstore on Nineteenth Street to hear an author speak about his latest book.	I'll be free all night, so wecan meet at a bookstore near my house at 7 p.m.
evp	boost	noun	1	B2	something that makes you feel more confident and happy, or that helps something increase or improve	Passing my driving test was such a boost to my confidence.	It really gave us a boost!
evp	boost	verb	1	B2	to improve or increase something	The theater managed to boost its audiences by cutting ticket prices.	It would not only boost my self-confiden[ce] but also look very good on my CV.
evp	boot	noun	1	A1	a strong shoe that covers your foot and part of your leg	a pair of boots	You should wear old clothes and a pair of boots.
evp	border	noun	1	B1	the line that divides one country from another	Were you stopped at the border?	We could visit the mountains near the Czech and German border.
evp	bored	adjective	1	B1	feeling tired and unhappy because something is not interesting or because you have nothing to do	It was a cold, wet day and the children were bored.	Ask them nicely and tell them you would get bored without your friends.
evp	boring	adjective	1	A1	not interesting or exciting	a boring job/lecture	My party was boring without you.
evp	borrow	verb	1	A2	to get or receive something from someone with the intention of giving it back after a period of time	I've borrowed some CDs from Mike.	I think that I can borrow the stereo player from my brother.
evp	borrow	verb	2	C1	to get money from a bank or financial organization and pay it back over a period of time	We had to borrow heavily to set up the business.	Some even borrow from loan sharks just to satisfy impulse shopping needs, which may eventually lead to building up debts to an individual or his family.
evp	boss	noun	1	A2	someone who is responsible for employees and tells them what to do	I'll ask my boss if I can leave work early tomorrow.	I asked my boss, but he said I have to work on Wednesday until late afternoon.
evp	bossy	adjective	1	B2	always telling other people what to do	a bossy older sister	Granny is the problem - she's a bit bossy!
evp	bother	verb	1	A2	to annoy or cause problems for someone	I'm sorry to bother you, but could you direct me to the station?	Carol, I'm sorry to bother you but I forgot my note book in your bedroom last night.
evp	bother	verb	2	B2	to make someone feel worried or upset	Does it bother you that he's out so much of the time?	Then I want to mention that there is one thing that bothers me a lot.
evp	bother	verb	3	B2	to make the effort to do something	He hasn't even bothered to write.	TV is entertaining, and it's all digested for you: you don't need to bother thinking after a long day's work.
evp	bother	verb	4	B2	If you can't be bothered to do something, you are too lazy or tired to do it or think it is not important.	I can't be bothered to iron my clothes.	It woke me up but I didn't answer it, [I] couldn't be bothered.
evp	bothered	adjective	1	B2	If you are bothered by or about something, it is important to you and you are worried about it.	He doesn't seem bothered by what people think of him.	I'm also bothered about what's going on around me.
evp	bottle	noun	1	A2	a container for liquids, usually made of glass or plastic, with a narrow top	a water bottle	You must take a bottle of water because you will be thirsty.
evp	bottom	noun	1	A1	the lowest part of something	He stood at the bottom of the stairs and called up to me.	One of the most amazing places we visited was a small lake at the bottom of a huge mountain.
evp	bottom	noun	2	A2	the flat surface on the lowest side of something	There was a label on the bottom of the box.	On the bottom of the box I found a card saying "MARRY ME...
evp	bottom	noun	3	B1	the lowest position in a group, organization, etc.	When Einstein was in school, he was at the bottom of his class.	
evp	bottom	noun	4	B1	the ground under a river, lake, or sea	The ship had sunk to the bottom of the sea.	It gives me great pleasure to go and see all the beautiful kinds of fish in the modern aquarium, which shows you the wonderful world that exists at the bottom of the ocean.
evp	bottom	noun	5	C2	the most important fact of final result in an activity, discussion, or situation	The bottom line is that they lost the game.	The bottom line is that the adults of today have to stop for a second and think about what they are doing.
evp	bottom	noun	6	C2	completely	I've searched the house from top to bottom and still can't find it.	Very often we can see someone in black, from top to bottom, or in white.
evp	bounce	verb	1	B1	to move up or away after hitting a surface, or to make something move this way	The basketball bounced off the rim of the basket.	As soon as I read the letter I started shouting and bouncing on the sofa.
evp	bounce	verb	2	C1	to move somewhere in a happy and energetic way	Sarah bounced into the room with a big smile on her face.	At "Elton John" people were singing ad dancing without to much pushing, while at "Metallica" people were screaming and shouting the lyrics out while they stage-dived and were bouncing around.
evp	bounce	verb	3	C2	If e-mail bounces back, it is returned to you because the address is not correct or there is a computer problem.	I tried to send you an email, but it bounced back.	
evp	bounce	verb	4	C1	to start to be successful again after a difficult period	Stock prices bounced back after a steep plunge earlier this week.	The figures reflecting the number of tonnes carried by the rail network had initially fallen in the nineteen eighties and nineteen nineties by about 40 per cent but then bounced back by the beginning of the new century.
evp	boundary	noun	1	C1	a line that divides two areas or forms an edge around an area	The mountains mark the boundary between the two countries.	This gives youngsters the opportunity to exchange opinions with people all over the world, and so the boundaries of the countries or the continents have less meaning.
evp	boundary	noun	2	C1	a limit	Your work is limited only by the boundaries of your imagination.	This is a movie that reminds us that a man's soul cannot be measured with a measuring tape, that passion knows no boundaries, and that love accepts no defeat.
evp	bow	noun	1	B2	a knot with two curved parts and two loose ends, that is used to tie shoes or as decoration	The present was wrapped in gold paper and tied with a big red bow.	He saw a big black bow o] the handle of the door.
evp	bow	noun	2	B2	a piece of curved wood with a string attached to both ends, used for shooting arrows	a bow and arrows	The bow was very beautiful and there were some letters on it] Artemis. He could not believe it, he had the bow of Artemis.
evp	bow	noun	3	C2	a long, thin piece of wood with hairs stretched between the ends, used to play some musical instruments	a violin bow	The feeling was, moreover, enhanced by his unique style, as for instance with the guitar solo on "Dazed and Confused," played with a violin bow.
evp	bowl	noun	1	A2	a round, deep dish used for holding soup and other food	a bowl of soup	We also used to complain about the fact that we had to have a bowl of soup every single day.
evp	box	noun	1	A1	a square or rectangular container	a cardboard box	I got clothes and a box of chocolates.
evp	box	noun	2	A2	a small square on a page that gives you information or where you write information	Choose an adjective from the box to complete each sentence.	
evp	boxing	noun	1	B1	a sport in which two competitors fight by hitting each other with their hands	Many doctors believe that boxing is too dangerous and should be banned.	You can do gym, boxing, squash, and tennis.
evp	boy	noun	1	A1	a male child or young man	a teenage boy	I hope it's a boy.
evp	boy	noun	2	B2	a group of male friends	I'm going out with the boys tonight.	Then, I went to play football with the boys.
evp	boyfriend	noun	1	A2	a man or boy who someone is having a romantic relationship with	He's not my boyfriend - we're just good friends!	Maria and her boyfriend gave me a wonderful mirror.
evp	bra	noun	1	B2	a piece of women's underwear that supports the breasts		She knew that I had bought my first bra without having asked her for advice.
evp	bracelet	noun	1	A2	a piece of jewelry that you wear around your wrist	a gold/silver/diamond bracelet	Actually I was very sad as the bracelet was particularly valuable to me.
evp	bracket	noun	1	C1	either of two symbols like two halves of a square, put around a word, phrase or sentence in a piece of writing to show that what is between them should be considered as separate from the main part	Biographical information is included in brackets.	About the free time given to costumers, I would like to add that maybe they don’t] know how to spend it, that is why I am suggesting to offer some proposals, written in brackets o] the program sheet.
evp	bracket	noun	2	C1	a group of people or things within particular lower and higher limits	Most heart attack victims are in the 45 to 65 age bracket.	Australians more than 50 years old watch a movie less than the other age brackets.
evp	brain	noun	1	A2	the body part inside your head that controls thought, memory, feelings and activity	He studies the brain and nervous system.	The class starts at 3:00 and ends at 4:00. You don't need to bring any thing but yourself; your clothes and your brain.
evp	brain	noun	2	C1	used to refer to intelligence	She's the brains behind our software development.	I would have to do my best to teach my children how to use their brains more instead of using technology system like computer.
evp	brake	noun	1	B1	the part of a vehicle that makes it stop or move more slowly	She had no brakes on her bicycle.	It has 24 active gears and multilink kevlor brakes.
evp	brake	verb	1	B2	to make a vehicle stop or move more slowly	I tried to brake but it was too late.	The motorcyclist cut in dangerously, so we had to brake.
evp	branch	noun	1	B1	one of the many parts of a tree that grows out from its trunk	Birds often make nests in the top branches of the tree.	She slowly climbed the tree and sat on one of the biggest branches.
evp	branch	noun	2	B1	one of several stores, offices, etc. that are part of a company or organization	I used to work in the local branch of a large bank.	He has come from our branch office in New York, where he worked as an assistant.
evp	branch	noun	3	B2	a part of a subject	Immunology is a branch of biological science.	As a matter of fact, innovations have taken place quite frequently in every branch of science.
evp	brand	noun	1	B2	a type of product made by a particular company	a best-selling/well-known brand	My computer brand is Acer.
evp	brand new	adjective	1	B1	completely new	The washing machine is brand new.	Well, I've decided to buy a new TV set and a brand new sofa!
evp	brass	noun	1	C1	a shiny yellow metal	a door with a brass handle	The dark marble is easy to keep clean and the solid brass handles look luxurious.
evp	brass	noun	2	C2	the group of musical instruments made from brass	a brass band	I liked it so much that I decided to become a brass band musician myself.
evp	brave	adjective	1	B1	showing no fear of dangerous or difficult situations	a brave soldier	They all laughed at me, but I was brave enough to mount the horse again.
evp	bravely	adverb	1	B1	in a brave way	She faced the consequences bravely.	
evp	bravery	noun	1	B2	when someone is brave	He was awarded a medal for his bravery in battle.	Of course my bravery disappeared and I felt my heart beating faster and faster.
evp	bread	noun	1	A1	a basic food made by mixing flour, water and sometimes yeast	a piece/slice of bread	I like bread, rice and beans.
evp	break	verb	1	A2	to separate into two or more pieces or to make something do this	The dish fell to the floor and broke.	I broke a beautiful glass.
evp	break	verb	2	A2	to damage a bone in your arm/leg, etc.	Barbara slipped on the ice and broke her arm.	I['m] selling my bicycle because I broke my leg.
evp	break	verb	3	A2	If you break a machine, object, etc., or if it breaks, it stops working because it is damaged.	I think I've broken your camera.	I'd like a new mobile phone because the other one has broken.
evp	break	verb	4	B1	to stop doing something for a short time	Let's break for lunch.	At last I managed to break the routine of the city and play with my brothers and sisters.
evp	break	verb	5	B2	to come to an end or make something come to an end	Eventually someone spoke, breaking the silence.	George was looking outside when something broke the silence.
evp	break	verb	6	B2	to do something better, faster, etc. than anyone else	Usain Bolt broke the world record for the 200 meters.	I personally think that nobody will ever break his record of being champion seven times.
evp	break	verb	7	B2	to not do what you should do	She agreed not to tell anyone, but she broke her promise.	I am very surprised that such a reputable theater as yours has been able to break all the promises that appeared in the advertisement.
evp	break	verb	8	B2	to do something illegal	He didn't know he was breaking the law by smoking inside the building.	Jem, the youngest brother, is a horse-thief, so he breaks the law as well, but his crime is a minor one.
evp	break	verb	9	B2	to make people feel more relaxed in a social situation	I told everyone a joke, which helped to break the ice.	And, of course, don't forget that a warm smile is one of the best ways to break the ice.
evp	break	verb	10	B2	to make someone feel extremely sad	She really broke his heart when she left.	I thought that the hamster would live forever but I was wrong and that mistake broke my heart.
evp	break	verb	11	C1	to make as much money as you spent, but no more	The company only managed to break even this year.	Company C does not seem to be doing well. In the year 2000, it just seems to be breaking even.
evp	break	verb	12	C2	If news or a story breaks, or if someone breaks it, it becomes known by the public for the first time.	News of the scandal broke just before the election.	
evp	break	verb	13	C2	to tell someone about something new or important	When they broke the news of their engagement, their parents were was delighted.	It wasn't hard to understand why she was filled with delight and happiness when her manager broke the news. The company was opening a new branch in Miami and they wanted her to become the director there.
evp	break	verb	14	C2	to escape from someone or something that is controlling you	She tried to break free from the social conditioning of her upbringing.	I would like to revisit there one day as it's firmly connected to my adolescence, when I struggled to break free from my peers, and tried to establish my own identity.
evp	break	verb	15	C2	to suddenly escape or become separate from something or someone	The dog broke free and ran into traffic.	
evp	break	verb	16	C2	If a storm breaks, it starts suddenly.	The storm broke just as we reached home.	Suddenly the moon disappeared behind the clouds and, in a few moments, a violent storm broke.
evp	break	verb	17	B1	If a machine or vehicle breaks down, it stops working.	Our car broke down and we had to push it off the road.	I'm just writing to tell you why I need to borrow your bicycle, because I am going to go to my farm next week and my car has broken down.
evp	break	verb	18	B1	to get into a building or car using force, usually to steal something	The burglars broke in through the kitchen window.	I even thought a burglar might have broken into my house and was going to kill me.
evp	break	verb	19	B2	to end (something) suddenly	She broke off in the middle of a sentence.	As you remember, my car didn't work as well as it should and I had to break off my trip]
evp	break	verb	20	B2	If something dangerous or unpleasant breaks out, it suddenly starts.	War broke out in 1914.	Unfortunately everything was stopped because the Second World War broke out.
evp	break	verb	21	B2	to force your way through something that is holding you back	Protesters broke through the barriers.	It broke through the ceiling and when she looked she saw it was a UFO.
evp	break	verb	22	B1	If two people break up, they stop having a relationship.	Jenny and George have broken up.	The problem is that a few months ago, when he had broken up with me, I wanted him to feel jealous, so I started meeting with Fredo, a friend.
evp	break	noun	1	A2	when you stop an activity for a short time, usually to rest or to eat	a coffee/lunch break	You must bring an old shirt, pencils, water and some food for the break.
evp	break	noun	2	B1	a vacation or period of time away from work, school, etc.	Where are you going over spring break?	He had a break for the weekend, and he called me: "I am in London, so, if you want to see me, it's the time!"
evp	break	noun	3	B1	where something has cracked or separated into pieces	A break in a water pipe caused a flood.	
evp	break	noun	4	C2	a lucky opportunity	His big break came when he was offered a part in a TV series.	
evp	breakable	adjective	1	B2	easy to break	That vase is breakable so be careful.	
evp	breakdown	noun	1	B2	a short period of mental illness when people are too ill to continue with their normal lives	Later that year she had a breakdown.	Instead of that I almost ended up in hospital suffering a nervous breakdown.
evp	breakdown	noun	2	B2	when a vehicle or machine stops working for a period of time	I had a breakdown in the middle of the road.	On Friday we went to Scotland but unfortunately we had a breakdown. By chance a very nice farmer fixed our car and as it was late he suggested we should spend the night on his farm.
evp	breakdown	noun	3	C1	a failure to continue to communicate or to continue or develop a relationship	a breakdown in the peace talks	Eventually, society may be affected by the breakdown of these relationships.
evp	breakdown	noun	4	C2	information broken into parts to easily show the details	I need a breakdown of the costs involved.	The pie charts showing the breakdown of annual spending of the school take into account money spent on insurance, teachers' salaries, furniture and equipment, resources (such as books), and other workers' salaries.
evp	breakfast	noun	1	A1	the food you eat in the morning after you wake up	What do you want for breakfast?	You can have breakfast in my house.
evp	breakthrough	noun	1	B2	an important discovery or event that helps to improve a situation or provide an answer to a problem	Scientists are hoping for a breakthrough in the search for a cure for cancer.	For me the main technology breakthrough has been in computers.
evp	breast	noun	1	B1	either of the two soft, rounded parts of a woman's chest that produce milk after she has a baby	When a woman becomes pregnant her breasts tend to grow larger.	This person is so special to me because after I was born I was drinking milk from her breast.
evp	breath	noun	1	B1	the air that goes into and out of your lungs	Her breath smelled of garlic.	Then I felt someone's breath on my shoulder...
evp	breath	noun	2	B2	to be breathing quickly because you have been running, walking fast, etc.	He burst into the room, red-faced and out of breath.	Although I was out of breath I started to run faster and faster.
evp	breath	noun	3	B2	to keep air in your lungs and not let it out	How long can you hold your breath under water?	My heart was beating fast. I was holding my breath.
evp	breath	noun	4	B2	If something takes your breath away, you feel surprise and admiration because it is so beautiful or exciting.	The view from the window took my breath away.	The landscape just takes your breath away sometimes.
evp	breath	noun	5	B2	to fill your lungs with air	Take a deep breath and relax.	But if you took a deep breath after reading the question, don't worry.
evp	breath	noun	6	C1	to rest for a short time until you can breathe regularly again	Let's stop here and catch our breath.	Unfortunately, the rooms we stayed in were on the 4th floor. The older people couldn't catch their breath when they finally arrived there!
evp	breath	noun	7	C2	If you say something under your breath, you say it very quietly so that other people cannot clearly hear it.	"It's time to go," she muttered under her breath.	"We must have taken a wrong turn somewhere..." he kept muttering under his breath.
evp	breath	noun	8	C2	in an excited or anxious way	I waited with bated breath as the results were read out.	Nevertheless, a huge number of scientists carrying out very useful research, and composers, actors, and artists making us watch their creations with bated breath, do not earn as much money as a lot of outstanding sportsmen do.
evp	breath	noun	9	C2	someone or something that is new, different, and exciting	Having Eve around has been a breath of fresh air.	Should this be everything the Town Council has promised, it will bring a breath of fresh air for our local youth.
evp	breath	noun	10	C2	to wait for something to happen, often feeling anxious	While the leaders negotiated, the world held its breath.	They, the critics, the fans and friends and his wife, held their breath and crossed their fingers, hoping to once again hear his enchanting voice.
evp	breathe	verb	1	B1	to take air into and out of your lungs	It's so airless in here - I can hardly breathe.	The air you will breathe is cleaner than the air in the city.
evp	breathtaking	adjective	1	B2	very beautiful or surprising	breathtaking scenery/views	For me it is a very beautiful country, with amazing and breathtaking scenery.
evp	breed	verb	1	B2	to keep animals for the purpose of producing young animals	His main income comes from breeding cattle.	We can keep animals, breed them, observe, and protect them]
evp	breed	verb	2	C2	to cause something to develop, especially something bad	He believes that movies like this breed violence.	Although it sounds banal it is hard to deny that modernity breeds misunderstandings; that complexity of our modern life make us susceptible for one of the most dangerous threats to our times: xenophobia.
evp	breed	noun	1	B2	a type of dog, sheep, etc.	This rare breed of sheep is particularly good for wool.	After she had seen pictures of the show animals, she decided to buy a small male kitten of the Cornish rex breed.
evp	breeze	noun	1	B1	a light and pleasant wind	a cool breeze	It was not that hot and we had a cool breeze as we cycled downhill.
evp	bribe	noun	1	C1	money or a present given to someone so that they will do something for you, usually something dishonest	The politician was accused of accepting bribes from several companies.	It is almost impossible to succeed in this case, without the help of your friends. Needless to say, bribes are a frequent occurrence.
evp	bribe	verb	1	C1	to try to make someone do something for you by giving them money, presents, or something else they want	He was accused of bribing a building inspector.	She considers presents to be a means of bribing her in order to love you.
evp	bribery	noun	1	C2	when someone is offered money or a present so that they will do something, usually something dishonest	bribery and corruption	They treat bribery as something natural - as it was in the last political system.
evp	brick	noun	1	B2	a small, hard, rectangular block used for building walls and houses	a brick wall	Future homes might not be built out of bricks at all!
evp	bride	noun	1	B1	a woman who is getting married	He returned from New York with his lovely new bride.	The day of the wedding, I took lots of pictures of the bride and the groom.
evp	bridge	noun	1	A2	a structure that is built over a river, road, train tracks, etc., to allow people and vehicles to cross from one side to the other	We drove across/over the bridge.	We can see Bogaz bridge from the window.
evp	bridge	noun	2	C2	something that connects two groups, organizations, etc., and improves the relationship between them	They are trying to build bridges with neighboring countries.	It is difficult to prevent this but we must do our best to build bridges between countries.
evp	brief	adjective	1	B1	lasting only a short time or using only a few words	His acceptance speech was very brief.	Turning to the website, I could not find all the information about the films, just a brief comment about the director, which is not useful for me.
evp	brief	adjective	2	B2	using only a few words	world news in brief	Now I will tell you in brief what exactly happened to me.
evp	briefly	adverb	1	B1	for a short time	We chatted briefly about the weather.	In this essay, I shall briefly look at the advantages and disadvantages of owning a car.
evp	bright	adjective	1	A2	strong in color	Leslie always wears bright colors.	I will be using bright orange for my bedroom.
evp	bright	adjective	2	B1	full of light, shining	bright sunshine	It was bright and sunny.
evp	bright	adjective	3	B2	clever	They were bright children, always asking questions.	Rony had the bright idea of calling the firemen.
evp	bright	adjective	4	B2	happy or full of hope	You're very bright and cheery this morning!	I think I'm a very bright kind of person, friendly with lots of energy.
evp	bright	adjective	5	C1	to find good things in a bad situation	Look on the bright side - no one was badly hurt.	I am quite self-confident and I usually look on the bright side, as I am not interested in pessimistic thoughts.
evp	brightly	adverb	1	B2	with a lot of strong color or light	brightly colored clothes	The sun was shining brightly over the white mountain tops.
evp	brilliant	adjective	1	B1	extremely intelligent or very skillful	a brilliant mathematician	He is an engineering student and he is brilliant in his studies.
evp	brilliant	adjective	2	B1	full of light or color	The sky was a brilliant blue.	It was 11:15 so I thought "they won't come" but suddenly a brilliant light bathed me.
evp	brilliantly	adverb	1	B2	in a very skillful way	He seems to do everything brilliantly - piano playing, skiing, sailing.	Although they are not very famous like JULIE BLOOM, they sang brilliantly.
evp	bring	verb	1	A2	to take someone or something with you when you go somewhere	I'm definitely coming to the party - can I bring anything?	Please bring old clothes with you.
evp	bring	verb	2	B1	to cause happiness/luck/peace, etc.	She's brought us so much happiness over the years.	She thought that the painting brought her bad luck but she thought that she was just talking nonsense and that it wouldn't happen again.
evp	bring	verb	3	C1	to make something finish	The stories in the newspaper brought her career to a sudden end.	At the end of the year 2002 a great construction was brought to an end.
evp	bring	verb	4	C2	to cause someone's best qualities to show	This chance to work with young people has really brought out the best in him.	TV can be a babysitter, but such a relationship is not going to bring out the best in a child.
evp	bring	verb	5	C2	If information is brought to light, it is learned or discovered.	Her research has brought to light new information about Jefferson’s early life.	The evening investigation which was carried out by the mysterious Inspector brought all these facts to light.
evp	bring	verb	6	C2	to make you feel such strong emotion that you want to cry	It was a very moving speech, and it brought a lump to my throat.	This devastating image brought a lump to John's throat.
evp	bring	verb	7	A2	to return from somewhere with something	Can you bring me back some milk?	
evp	bring	verb	8	B2	to produce something to sell to the public	They've just brought out a new, smaller phone.	Everybody knows how difficult it is to direct movies here in Greece because only a few movies are brought out every year.
evp	bring	verb	9	B1	to care for a child until it is an adult	She was brought up by her grandmother.	I'm a woman in my mid-forties and have brought up three children.
evp	bring	verb	10	B2	to start to talk about a particular subject	There are several points I'd like to bring up at tomorrow's meeting.	This matter has always brought up some problems.
evp	broad	adjective	1	B1	wide	We walked down a broad avenue lined with trees.	Joss Merlyn was seven feet high, with broad, immense shoulders.
evp	broad	adjective	2	B1	a group that includes many different things or people	The magazine covers a broad range of subjects, from sewing to psychology.	My last employer asked me to work again this summer. [H]owever, I would like to have a broad experience in different camps.
evp	broadband	noun	1	B2	a type of Internet connection that allows large amounts of information to be sent or received very quickly	We've got broadband at home.	
evp	broadcast	verb	1	B2	to send out a program on television, radio or the Internet	The game is being broadcast on ESPN.	They were going to broadcast the final match of the world league, and Italy was going to play.
evp	broaden	verb	1	C1	to increase or make something increase and include more things or people	Going to college will broaden your interests.	I mentioned the fact that such a presentation would broaden his mind and help him to strengthen his position in the company.
evp	broadly	adverb	1	C1	in a general way and not including everything or everyone	The plans have been broadly accepted.	The car is a marvelous means of transport as far as mobility, freedom, speed and comfort are concerned but it is now broadly acknowledged that it is inappropriate for the short journeys in our big cities.
evp	broad-minded	adjective	1	C2	willing to accept other people's behavior and beliefs that are different from your own	My eighty-year-old aunt is very broad-minded.	It should also be pointed out that Alexander is a broad-minded and sociable person with outstanding organizational skills.
evp	broccoli	noun	1	B1	a green vegetable with a thick stem	I had pasta with broccoli and tomatoes.	
evp	brochure	noun	1	B1	a thin book with pictures and information, usually advertising something	We looked at some tourist brochures last night.	I will send you some brochures of Switzerland, so you can choose some destinations.
evp	broken	adjective	1	A2	damaged and separated into pieces	He attacked the man with a broken bottle.	The first thing we saw was a broken window.
evp	broken	adjective	2	A2	an arm/leg, etc. with a damaged bone	Her little brother has a broken arm.	I stayed there for 2 weeks with a broken leg and sore ribs.
evp	broken	adjective	3	A2	no longer able to work	My watch is broken.	My bicycle is broken.
evp	broken	adjective	4	B2	when you are very sad because of the end of a relationship	They said she died of a broken heart.	He will split up with you and you will get a broken heart!
evp	broken	adjective	5	C1	English/Spanish, etc. that is spoken slowly and has a lot of mistakes in it	I managed to make myself understood in broken French.	A non-English speaker may be able to talk in broken English to a native English speaker, but has only a vague idea as to what he's uttering.
evp	broken	adjective	6	C2	a family in which the parents do not now live together	Many of these children come from broken homes.	The development of the modern society has brought with it a growing number of broken homes, divorces and economic problems which have directly affected the parent-child relationship.
evp	bronze	noun	1	C1	a bronze medal	He won the bronze in the 200m.	I have won two bronze medals and one gold for swimming 50m.
evp	bronze	noun	2	C2	a shiny orange-brown metal	a statue made of bronze	The ancient ones are made with precious metals: gold, silver, bronze and even some semi-precious gems.
evp	bronze	adjective	1	C2	made of bronze	a bronze statue	The water flowed from the mouth of a bronze dolphin to the small pond full of lily-pads and reeds.
evp	bronze	adjective	2	C2	being the color of bronze	bronze skin	It looked as if the autumn had taken all the colors of spring and softly blended them in richly intense shades of amber, bronze and purple.
evp	brother	noun	1	A1	a man or boy with the same parents as another person	Do you have any brothers and sisters?	I need to buy a book for my younger brother.
evp	brother-in-law	noun	1	B2	the man married to your sister or the brother of your husband or wife	It's my brother-in-law's birthday today.	
evp	brown	adjective	1	A1	being the color of chocolate or soil	dark/light brown	I'm going to wear an old T-shirt and brown trousers.
evp	brown	noun	1	A2	a brown color	I don't wear brown.	I'm going to paint my bedroom. I'll use soft brown.
evp	browse	verb	1	B2	to look through a book or magazine without reading everything, or to walk around a shop looking at several things without intending to buy any of them	I was just browsing through some magazines.	I do really enjoy shopping as it's really fun to browse through the clothes and pick your choice.
evp	browse	verb	2	B2	to look at information on the Internet	I can use my phone to browse the Web, read e-mail, and sync with my computer.	Furthermore people read when they browse on the internet, whether for entertainment or educational and business affairs.
evp	browser	noun	1	B2	a computer program that makes it possible for you to read information on the Internet	a Web browser	It is important to install an Internet browser, that could be Internet Explorer, as well as the free Mozilla Firefox.
evp	bruise	noun	1	B2	a dark area on your skin where you have been hurt	His arms and back were covered in bruises.	I entered the room and saw him, covered in bruises, but I couldn't see his face because he was sleeping turned to the other side.
evp	brush	noun	1	A2	an object made of short pieces of stiff hair, plastic or wire fixed to a handle, which is used for cleaning, smoothing hair, painting, etc.	combs and brushes	We need to bring a size 3 brush, a size 12 brush and a palette.
evp	brush	verb	1	A2	to use a brush to clean or arrange something	Could you brush your hair?	I really need it to brush my hair tomorrow for Katie's party.
evp	brush	verb	2	B2	to lightly touch someone or something as you move past	Charlotte brushed against him as she left the room.	A soft, cool breeze brushed my skin.
evp	brush	verb	3	C1	to move something somewhere using a brush or your hand	Jackie brushed the hair out of her eyes.	She picked the diary up, brushed off the dust, and immediately started to read it.
evp	brush	verb	4	C1	to improve your knowledge of something already learned but partly forgotten	I thought I'd brush up on my French before going to Paris.	Do you want to make new friends? Or perhaps you want to brush up on your English?
evp	brutal	adjective	1	C1	very violent or cruel	a brutal murder	Can you remember the days when soccer was peaceful, harmless and all about joy? It has nothing to do with contemporary soccer, which is brutal, aggressive, and emotional.
evp	bubble	noun	1	C1	a ball of air or gas with liquid around it	an air bubble	As a consequence the sea became polluted, and its deep blue color turned into a dirty green, covered with bubbles!
evp	bubble	verb	1	C1	to be full of a positive emotion or quality	The children were bubbling over with excitement.	I feel as if you were bubbling over with excitement as you never had done before.
evp	bubble	verb	2	C2	If a liquid bubbles, balls of air or gas rise to its surface.	The soup was bubbling on the stove.	
evp	bucket	noun	1	B1	a container with an open top and a handle, often used for carrying liquids	a bucket of water	I screamed and ran out the door, when a bucket of ice cold water fell on my head!
evp	budget	noun	1	B2	the amount of money a person or organization has available to spend	an annual budget of $40 million	Finally, as I am a student on a very tight budget I would prefer a cheap B and B or a family rather than a local campsite.
evp	bug	noun	1	B1	a very small insect	He found a bug in his bed.	Maybe you're thinking that he's a loving man who talks only about bugs and insects, but it's not true.
evp	bug	noun	2	B2	a bacteria or a virus causing an illness that is usually not serious	I had a stomach bug last week.	
evp	bug	noun	3	B2	a mistake or problem in a computer program	A bug had caused the company's computer system to crash.	For instance, the millennium bug might make all computers confused, and banks will lose money.
evp	build	verb	1	A2	to make something by putting materials and parts together	They're building new houses by the river.	It was built in 1880.
evp	build	verb	2	C1	to increase or develop, or to make something increase or develop	This will help to build up his confidence.	What might take a long time to build up could be ruined in a very short time.
evp	builder	noun	1	B1	a person whose job it is to make buildings		Currently he's working in a hotel but in his own country he's a builder.
evp	building	noun	1	A2	a structure with walls and a roof such as a house or factory, or the business of making these	old/new/tall buildings	I think it's an interesting place because it is the tallest building in Malaysia.
evp	bulb	noun	1	B1	a glass object that produces light from electricity	an energy-saving light bulb	We use the bulb everywhere and for almost everything.
evp	bulky	adjective	1	C1	too big and taking up too much space	bulky equipment	The problem is actually that to get access to this kind of program, one needs to buy special equipment, which is still quite expensive and bulky.
evp	bull	noun	1	B1	a male cow, or the male of particular animals such as the elephant or the whale	They did not see the sign by the gate saying "Beware of the bull."	
evp	bullet	noun	1	B2	a small, metal object that is shot from a gun	A bullet had lodged in the boy's leg.	After this, she was working for the FBI until she received a bullet in the shoulder.
evp	bulletin board	noun	1	B1	a board on the wall where you put advertisements and announcements	The class schedule is up on the bulletin board.	
evp	bully	verb	1	C1	to intentionally frighten someone who is smaller or weaker than you	He was bullied at school by some older boys.	Nowadays, due to active bullying prevention by the schools, the children are exposed to the bad effects of bullying and how to stand up if anybody tries to bully them.
evp	bully	noun	1	C1	someone who intentionally frightens a person who is smaller or weaker than them	Teachers usually know who the bullies are in a class.	One day you accidentally kill the bully of the village with a sword you found, and you are cast out of the village.
evp	bump	verb	1	B2	to hurt part of your body by hitting it against something hard	I bumped my head on the shelf as I stood up.	
evp	bump	verb	2	B2	to hit something with force	She bumped into his tray, knocking the food onto his lap.	A young man ran after the ball and bumped into her.
evp	bump	verb	3	C1	to meet someone you know when you have not expected to meet them	I bumped into Mark when I was out shopping this afternoon.	This seemed like a very good decision at the beginning as now you could walk freely and could stand freely in the middle of any street to chat with a friend when you bumped into one.
evp	bump	noun	1	C1	a raised area on your body where it has been hurt by hitting something hard	I got a bump on my head when I hit it getting into the car.	
evp	bump	noun	2	C1	a round, raised area on a surface	I fell off my bike when I hit a bump riding down the hill.	[P]eople don't feel safe on the streets anymore due to the lack of speed limit signs or speed bumps on the roads, or simply traffic lights!
evp	bumper	noun	1	B2	a bar fixed along the front or the back of a vehicle to protect it in an accident	a front/rear bumper	The cars were bumper to bumper.
evp	bun	noun	1	B2	a small, round cake or piece of bread	a hamburger/hot dog bun	I was selling sweet buns and coffee in the coffee shop.
evp	bunch	noun	1	B1	a number of things of the same type which are joined or held together	a bunch of flowers/grapes/bananas/keys	He gave me a bunch of roses.
evp	bunch	noun	2	B1	a group of people	His friends are a nice bunch.	I met a bunch of guys there, and they were all good to me.
evp	bundle	noun	1	C2	a number of things that are tied together	a bundle of letters/clothes	It was a bundle of papers hanging out of a hole in the ceiling.
evp	bundle	noun	2	C2	a very energetic/nervous person	I was a bundle of nerves before the speech.	When he began to be a bundle of nerves, he understood that he had to ask her for the truth.
evp	burden	noun	1	C1	something difficult or unpleasant that you have to deal with or worry about	the burden of responsibility	You can imagine the reaction of people: we're exhausted, we cannot stand the burden of new taxes; the government should reduce them, instead of increasing fiscal pressure.
evp	bureaucracy	noun	1	C2	complicated rules and processes used by an organization, especially when they do not seem necessary	government bureaucracy	It was difficult because the bureaucracy proved to be extremely slow and I was all on my own suddenly.
evp	bureaucracy	noun	2	C2	a government or organization in which there are a lot of officials in a lot of departments	The country has a powerful bureaucracy.	In any case, the Government and bureaucracy must play a leading role in the performance of the economy.
evp	burger	noun	1	A2	meat or other food pressed into a round, flat shape and fried	a burger and French fries	You can have garlic bread and French fries, burgers and salads and cold drinks.
evp	burglar	noun	1	B2	a person who illegally enters buildings and steals things	I saw someone climbing in through a window and assumed it must be a burglar.	Was it possible that a burglar was trying to break into the house?
evp	burglary	noun	1	B2	the crime of illegally entering a building and stealing things	He was charged with burglary.	It makes the shops more secure against burglary and vandalism.
evp	burial	noun	1	C2	when a dead body is put into the ground	The burial took place on Monday.	After his burial, I would receive a book where all kinds of items were made explicit to me.
evp	burn	verb	1	B1	to (cause something to) be damaged or destroyed by fire or extreme heat	The factory burned to the ground.	I could see how the fire was burning the door and the room became hotter and hotter.
evp	burn	verb	2	B1	to be on fire, or to produce flames	The wood was wet and would not burn.	After a while I found matches and firewood, and soon a nice warm fire was burning in the fireplace.
evp	burn	verb	3	B1	If you burn something that you are cooking, you cook it too much and if something you are cooking burns, it cooks too much.	Check the pizza - I think it's burning!	He burned the chicken, so we had only salad and bread.
evp	burn	verb	4	B1	to hurt a part of the body with fire or heat	I burned my hand on the iron.	If I go to the beach I like to wear a swimming suit that covers all of my body because I don't want to burn my skin.
evp	burn	verb	5	B2	to copy music, information or images onto a CD	He's burned all his favorite music onto a CD.	Microsoft Vista is such a complex system that there is no need for the additional programs for viewing web sites, watching movies, listening to music or burning your own CDs or DVDs.
evp	burn	verb	6	B2	to use fuel to produce energy	A car this size burns a lot of gas.	People should burn calories by cycling or jogging.
evp	burn	verb	7	C2	to work late into the night	I had to burn the midnight oil to get the essay finished.	My examinations were nearing and I was always burning the midnight oil.
evp	burn	verb	8	B2	to destroy something, especially a building, by fire, or to be destroyed by fire	Their house burnt down while they were away on vacation.	[In] about 1850, the king's castle burned down, and then he bought Amalienberg and made it a residence for the royal family.
evp	burn	verb	9	B2	to become ill or very tired from working too hard	If he keeps working this hard he'll just burn out.	I am sure that you soon will reach a stage where you will be burned out.
evp	burning	adjective	1	B1	on fire	A man staggered from the burning car.	I saw a burning car.
evp	burning	adjective	2	C1	a subject or question that must be taken care of or answered quickly	Climate change remains a burning issue.	Your staff is very nice but we are sorry to learn that they only speak English. It's a burning issue for us because we have few European travelers: German, Italian or French.
evp	burning	adjective	3	C1	a very strong need to do something	I have no burning desire to go diving.	My most important quality is my burning desire to make a change.
evp	burst	verb	1	B2	to break open or apart suddenly, or to make something do this	The balloon burst and frightened the children.	We had a lovely lunch there and ate so much that we nearly burst.
evp	burst	verb	2	C2	to be full of an emotion or quality	She was bursting with pride.	And after, they feel as fit as a fiddle, bursting with energy to go back to work.
evp	burst	verb	3	C2	to suddenly start burning	The car plunged down a hill and burst into flames.	When we turned it on, it burst into flames and before we could extinguish it, the fire destroyed my desk.
evp	burst	verb	4	B2	to enter a room or building suddenly and without warning	The head of the department suddenly burst into the conference room.	One of the bodyguards burst into the building, while Paul made his way out through the roof.
evp	burst	verb	5	B2	to suddenly start to make a noise, especially to start crying	She put the phone down and burst into tears.	Ginny felt so depressed and disappointed that she burst into tears.
evp	burst	verb	6	B2	to suddenly start laughing/crying/shouting, etc.	He took one look at the hat she was wearing and burst out laughing.	I burst out crying because my apron had burned completely.
evp	bury	verb	1	B1	to put a dead body into the ground	His father was buried in the churchyard.	Apparently, no human being was walking outside and she could not even hear anything but a distant bell, certainly that of the church where they had buried poor aunt Charlotte.
evp	bury	verb	2	B2	to put something into a hole in the ground and cover it	The dog trotted off to bury its bone.	I was really frightened, so I decided to bury the money in the back garden.
evp	bury	verb	3	C2	to give all your attention to something	He buried himself in his work.	Miss Kenton is clearly attracted to the butler but he is equally clearly terrified of intimacy and buries himself in his work.
evp	bury	verb	4	C2	to move your face/head somewhere where it is hidden	She buried her face in her hands.	A seemingly courageous young man, who had stayed perfectly calm until that moment, dropped to his knees, then buried his face in the scorching sand.
evp	bus	noun	1	A1	a large vehicle in which people are driven from one place to another	You should take the bus if you want to see the sights.	You can get there by bus.
evp	bush	noun	1	B2	a short, thick plant with a lot of branches	a rose bush	There were so many flowers and bushes, and the water of the lake was so fresh.
evp	bush	noun	2	C1	to avoid talking about something difficult or embarrassing	I decided to stop beating around the bush and told him exactly what I thought of him.	Well, let's stop beating about the bush and get to the point.
evp	bush	noun	3	C2	areas in places like Africa and Australia that are covered with bushes and trees where very few people live	He spent weeks wandering in the bush.	For the first three days we were walking through different types of bush that changed like in a kaleido]scope the swampy, the dry, the barren.
evp	business	noun	1	A1	the activity of buying and selling goods and services	He's in business with his cousin.	This week I have to go to Germany to do some business with one of our customers.
evp	business	noun	2	A2	an organization that sells goods or services	He runs a small IT business.	This is a horrible time to start a new job or business.
evp	business	noun	3	B1	the work that you do to earn money	I'm in Baltimore on business.	I was there on business.
evp	business	noun	4	B2	If something is none of someone's business, they do not need to know about it, although they want to, because it does not affect them.	I'm certainly not going to tell Lara how much money I've spent - it's none of her business!	You might think it's none of my business, but I simply have to say this.
evp	business	noun	5	C2	used to tell someone in that you are annoyed and they should not ask about something private	I wish you'd just mind your own business.	Despite knowing that he was only doing what he thought was best for me, I couldn't stand him, and I often told him to mind his own business.
evp	businessman	noun	1	A2	a man who works in business, especially if he has a high position in a company	He was a successful businessman before becoming a writer.	
evp	businesswoman	noun	1	A2	a woman who works in business, especially if she has a high position in a company	She is a successful businesswoman.	
evp	bus station	noun	1	A2	the place where a bus starts or ends its journey	The bus station is downtown.	I will meet you at the bus station.
evp	bus stop	noun	1	A2	a place where a bus stops to allow passengers to get on and off	Wait for me at the bus stop.	The bus stop is in front of my house.
evp	busy	adjective	1	A1	If you are busy, you are working hard, or giving your attention to a particular thing	Mom was busy in the kitchen.	I'm sorry I haven't written before, but I've been very busy studying.
evp	busy	adjective	2	A1	A busy place is full of activity or people.	a busy restaurant	Despite the fact that Rome is a busy city, you can find quiet places like Broccian lake and the seaside in Ostia.
evp	busy	adjective	3	A2	In a busy period, you have a lot of things to do.	I've got a busy week ahead of me.	It was a busy day.
evp	butcher	noun	1	B1	a person who sells meat in a store		He started to work as a butcher.
evp	butt	noun	1	C1	the part of your body that you sit on	The baby is learning to walk and keeps falling on her butt.	
evp	butt	verb	1	C2	to interrupt or join in a conversation or activity when the other people do not want you to	The interviewer kept butting in and wouldn't let me answer the question.	"Was it a big one, Granny?", the little girl butted in.
evp	butter	noun	1	A1	a pale yellow food made from cream that you put on bread or use in cooking	Have some bread and butter.	We have fresh farm food like butter, milk, cheese.
evp	butterfly	noun	1	B1	an insect with large, patterned wings	A butterfly landed on her sleeve for a moment.	There were lots of wild flowers and we saw some beautiful birds and butterflies.
evp	button	noun	1	B1	a switch that you press to control a piece of equipment	He inserted the DVD and pressed the "play" button.	I could have written a letter in a bottle but waiting for the answer would take a decade, now with e-mail] it's just a click of a button.
evp	button	noun	2	B1	a small, round object used to fasten something, for example a shirt or coat	I need to sew a new button on my blouse.	It was a long dress with some square buttons on the front of it.
evp	buy	verb	1	A1	to get something by paying money for it	Eventually she had saved enough money to buy a small car.	I bought it five years ago.
evp	buyer	noun	1	B1	someone who buys something expensive such as a house	He's still looking for a buyer for his house.	She had already found a buyer for the famous painting.
evp	buzz	noun	1	C2	a feeling of excitement, energy, or pleasure	He gets a real buzz from going to the gym.	The reading groups will then create a real buzz in the community in regard to reading.
evp	buzz	noun	2	C2	a continuous sound like a bee makes	I could hear the buzz of a fly near my ear.	I was working when I started hearing a kind of buzz, that was getting louder and louder.
evp	buzz	verb	1	C2	to make a continuous noise like a bee	I can hear something buzzing.	They are now sitting quietly at their desks in a classroom where you can hear the flies buzz.
evp	buzz	verb	2	C2	to be full of activity and excitement	The crowd was buzzing with excitement.	Summer was getting into full swing and the city was buzzing with activity.
evp	cab	noun	1	B1	a taxi	We took a cab to the theater.	I packed my things and I took a cab home.
evp	cabbage	noun	1	B1	a large round vegetable with green, white or purple leaves, which can be eaten cooked or raw	a savoy cabbage	Sarma is made with meat and cabbage.
evp	cabin	noun	1	B1	the area where passengers sit on an aircraft	cabin crew	She is a cabin attendant now, and she had a flight to London from Japan.
evp	cabin	noun	2	B1	a small, simple house made of wood	a log cabin	Near the cabin there was a creek.
evp	cabin	noun	3	C2	a small room to sleep in on a ship	We had a cabin on the top deck.	I went to my cabin to have a little nap.
evp	cabinet	noun	1	A2	a piece of furniture with shelves or drawers to store or show things in	a medicine cabinet	My bed is on your left, and a big cabinet is on your right.
evp	cable	noun	1	B1	the system of sending signals carrying information for television, telephone, or Internet along wires	cable TV/television	The rooms are big and have cable TV and air conditioning.
evp	cable	noun	2	B2	a set of wires, covered by plastic, that carries electricity, telephone signals, etc.	The road had been dug up in order to lay cables.	A mouse had eaten the cable so that there was no contact any more.
evp	café	noun	1	A1	a small restaurant where you can buy drinks and light meals	There's a little café on the corner that serves very good coffee.	There's a new café near my home.
evp	cafeteria	noun	1	A2	a restaurant where people choose foods from a serving area and carry them to their tables, often in a school, factory, office, etc.	the school cafeteria	Jo, the information is on the wall next to the cafeteria but I have some information too]
evp	cage	noun	1	B1	a container made of wire or metal bars used for keeping birds or animals	It took about 10 minutes to get the mouse into her cage.	There is a wonderful garden, in which you can find a lot of flowers and parrots in a cage.
evp	cake	noun	1	A1	a sweet food made from flour, butter, sugar and eggs, mixed together and baked	chocolate cake	Your chocolate cake is great too.
evp	cake	noun	2	B2	to be very easy	The exam itself was a piece of cake.	The article was a piece of cake though I didn't expect to win.
evp	calculate	verb	1	B2	to discover an amount or number using mathematics	Have you calculated the cost of the project?	To end with, the police calculated that there were over 5000 people at the Festival.
evp	calculate	verb	2	C2	to be intended to have a particular effect	His comments were calculated to embarrass the president.	Had he known that his Majesty would be vexed, he would have never written such comical rhymes, hardly calculated to e]ndea himself to the King.
evp	calculation	noun	1	B2	when you use mathematics to discover an amount or number	I did some quick calculations to see if we could afford it.	Just a simple calculation: the living space an elephant has got in a zoo is about 500m2.
evp	calculator	noun	1	B1	an electronic device that you use to do mathematical calculations	a pocket calculator	I use the calculator and the computer every day, so modern technology has become a big part of my life.
evp	calendar	noun	1	A2	a list that shows all the days, weeks and months of the year	a calendar for the year 2022	I got a calendar from Jul[ie], a candle from Peter, a book from Robert and a birthday cake from my parents.
evp	calendar	noun	2	B2	a book or other list with spaces for each day of the year in which to write down appointments, meetings, etc.	OK, I put that in my calendar - dinner at seven on the twenty-third.	I have looked in my calendar to see what time would be the best for you to come here.
evp	calf	noun	1	B1	a young cow	There were some calves in the field.	That reminded me of the time when I milked the cows and fed the ewes and the calves.
evp	calf	noun	2	C2	the back of your leg below your knee	I pulled a muscle in my calf.	
evp	calm	adjective	1	B1	relaxed and not worried, frightened, or excited	Try to stay calm - the doctor will be here soon.	He is calm, friendly and helpful.
evp	calm	adjective	2	B1	describes weather which is not windy, or the sea or a lake when it is still and has no waves	calm seas	The sea is calm with almost no waves, so we could relax in the water.
evp	calm	verb	1	B2	to stop feeling upset, angry, or excited, or to stop someone from feeling this way	Calm down, Lily, and tell me what's wrong.	When I got in my car, I told myself to calm down and take a deep breath.
evp	calmly	adverb	1	B2	in a quiet or relaxed way	She reacted surprisingly calmly to the news of his death.	Very calmly, I closed my book and put it on the table which was on my left.
evp	camel	noun	1	B1	a large animal that lives in the desert and has one or two raised parts on its back	Have you ever ridden a camel?	You can enjoy watching camels and goats passing, once in the morning and again in the evening.
evp	camera	noun	1	A1	a device for taking photographs or making films or television programs	I forgot to take my camera with me to Portugal, so I couldn't take any photos.	I like it, because my camera has broken.
evp	camp	noun	1	B1	a place where people stay in tents or other temporary structures	We set up camp near the lake.	The camp was a peaceful place with flowers, trees, and a bike path]
evp	camp	noun	2	B1	a place in the countryside where you go for a vacation and that has cabins or tents and offers a program of things to do	The kids go away to summer camp for two weeks every August.	That was a friend I have not seen for four years. We met in summer camp and had great time together, but I lost her phone number.
evp	camp	noun	3	B2	an area containing temporary buildings or tents used for soldiers/prisoners/refugees		This year I think I'd rather go to a refugee camp to organize a program for children.
evp	camp	verb	1	A2	to stay in a tent or temporary shelter	We camped near the beach for two nights.	We camped near a group of lions the first night.
evp	campaign	noun	1	C1	a series of organized activities or events intended to achieve a result	an advertising/election campaign	In order to solve problems caused by traffic congestion, perhaps the City Co[u]ncil should consider launching a publicity campaign to show people in Baden the alternative means of transport and the advantages of using them.
evp	campaign	noun	2	C1	a series of military attacks	a bombing campaign	Another example is the campaign of Alexander the Great.
evp	campaign	verb	1	C1	to organize a series of activities to try to achieve something	to campaign against/for something	Instead of campaigning against tourism, people should look for ways of making it better and safer.
evp	camping	noun	1	A2	when you stay in a tent on vacation	We used to go camping in Vermont when I was a child.	My hobb[ies are singing, reading and going camping.
evp	campsite	noun	1	B1	an space where a person can put a tent and other equipment and stay on vacation	The campsite was near the beach.	I really enjoyed the scenery because near our tent there was a tiny waterfall; in front of our campsite there was a forest.
evp	campus	noun	1	B2	the buildings of a college or university and the land that surrounds them	There's housing for about five hundred students on campus.	You should visit Kamakura City, which is 30 minutes from our campus by train.
evp	can	noun	1	A2	a closed, metal container for food or liquids	a can of beans/soup	I have already bought two cans of blue paint.
evp	canal	noun	1	B1	an artificial river built for boats to travel along or to take water from one area to another	The Panama Canal provides a crucial shipping link between the Atlantic and Pacific oceans.	And if you don't like jazz, you could visit Tivoli or take a canal tour.
evp	cancel	verb	1	B1	to decide that an organized event will not now happen, or to stop an order for goods or services that you no longer want	They had to cancel tonight's game because of the bad weather.	I had nothing to do because my previous plans had been cancelled.
evp	cancellation	noun	1	C1	when someone decides that an event will not now happen or stops an order for something	a last-minute cancellation	To begin with, there was a general disappointment due to the cancellation of the opening speech.
evp	cancer	noun	1	B1	a serious disease that is caused when cells in the body grow in a way that is uncontrolled and not normal	breast/lung cancer	The doctors told my parents that my aunt was suffering from cancer.
evp	candidate	noun	1	B2	a person who is competing to get a job or elected position	There are three candidates running for mayor.	I am the appropriate candidate for this job.
evp	candle	noun	1	B1	a stick of wax with string going through it which produces light as it burns	Shall I light a candle?	I like shopping for clothes but also for other things like candles and so on.
evp	candy	noun	1	A2	a sweet food made from sugar or chocolate, or a piece of this	a candy bar	I'd like a box of candy.
evp	canned	adjective	1	B2	used to describe food or drink that has been put into metal containers in a factory	canned tomatoes	A new way of of eating has sprung up - fast food and canned vegetables are all around us.
evp	cap	noun	1	A2	a hat with a curved part at the front	He wears a baseball cap.	I want to buy shoes, a pull-over, tee-shirt, cap and sun glasses.
evp	cap	verb	1	C1	to put a limit on an amount of money that can be borrowed, charged, etc.	The interest rate has been capped at 5%.	Balance sheets reveal a need of further income. Since the fee needs to be capped to be suitable for students, we cannot raise it.
evp	capability	noun	1	C1	the ability or power to do something	Both players have the capability to win this match.	The most important part of this job is to be able to work as a member of a team and manage to use everyone's skills and capabilities.
evp	capable	adjective	1	B2	able to do things effectively and achieve results	She's a very capable young woman.	I had a little farm when I was in Italy so I think I'm quite capable and have more experience than others.
evp	capable	adjective	2	B2	having the ability, power or qualities to be able to do something	She is certainly capable of running the business.	And although I've never had to cook for myself, I suppose I would be capable of cooking if needed.
evp	capacity	noun	1	B2	the largest amount or number that a container, building, etc. can hold	a restaurant with a capacity of 200	I would recommend the use of the state stadium next year for the concerts, in order to support the capacity of the crowd.
evp	capacity	noun	2	B2	the ability to do, experience, or understand something	She has a great capacity for hard work.	On the other hand, I think films reduce your capacity for imagination.
evp	capacity	noun	3	C1	a position or job	She attended over 100 events last year in her capacity as mayor.	I'm writing in my capacity as secretary of the Social Club of the language school to complain about the services provided to us during our visit to the Science and Technology museum.
evp	capital	noun	1	A2	a city which is the center of government of a country, state or region	The capital of France is Paris.	You'll go to Hue province, it's the old capital of Vietnam; you can take a train, car or plane from Hanoi to Hue.
evp	capitalism	noun	1	C2	a political and economic system in which industry is owned privately for profit and not by the state	Modern capitalism has shaped the global economy.	Although living in the former DDR was almost like living in prison, the film shows the problem of unemployment and the negative results of capitalism.
evp	capitalist	adjective	1	C2	relating to capitalism	a capitalist society	There will be important insights to have in examining the ways Japan maintains its social solidarity while prospering as a capitalist society.
evp	capital letter	noun	1	A2	a large letter of the alphabet used at the beginning of sentences and names	Write your answers in capital letters on the answer sheet.	
evp	captain	noun	1	B1	the leader of a sports team	It's unusual to have a goalkeeper as the team captain.	Now I am the captain of the football team.
evp	captain	noun	2	B2	the person in charge of a ship or an aircraft	This is your captain speaking. We expect to be landing at London Heathrow in an hour.	I suggest you leave at 8 a.m., because it tends to less crowded then, according to the captain of the ship.
evp	capture	verb	1	B2	to catch someone and make them your prisoner, or to take something into your possession, especially by force	Two of the soldiers were killed and the rest were captured.	Joe, the serial killer, was captured.
evp	capture	verb	2	B2	to show or describe something successfully using words or pictures	His book really captures the spirit of the place.	Firstly, let me tell you that your report is really good. I think you capture in a few lines the whole expression of a Mexic[an] town['s] life.
evp	capture	verb	3	B2	to record someone or something on camera/film, etc.	He was captured on film swearing at the referee.	Another event that should absolutely be captured on film is the preparation of the meals in the canteen.
evp	capture	verb	4	C1	to make someone interested in or excited about something	The Moon landing captured the attention of the whole world.	I am sure this program would capture the interest of other students in this college, as those who participated would be telling their friends all about their adventurous trip.
evp	capture	noun	1	C1	when a person or animal is caught and made a prisoner	He shot himself to avoid capture.	The best example is Operation Takedown which is based on the capture of Kevin Mitnick, who illegally hacked in to computers and stole information, but in the movie he is presented as a hero.
evp	car	noun	1	A1	a road vehicle with an engine, four wheels, and seats for a small number of people	They don't have a car.	We are coming by car.
evp	car	noun	2	C1	one of the separate parts of a train where the passengers sit	a dining/café/sleeping car	There is a dining car in the train so you can eat during the trip.
evp	carbon	noun	1	B2	a chemical element present in all animals and plants and in coal and oil	Diamonds are formed from carbon.	
evp	carbon dioxide	noun	1	B2	the gas formed when carbon is burned, or when people or animals breathe out	carbon dioxide emissions	If we use up carbon dioxide with balloon clothes there will be less carbon dioxide on Earth, so there is no worry about the Ozone.
evp	carbon footprint	noun	1	B2	the amount of energy that a person or organization uses in order to exist or operate	Many of us could reduce our carbon footprint by taking fewer flights and insulating our homes better.	I also included some possible precautions to reduce our carbon footprints.
evp	carbon monoxide	noun	1	B2	a poisonous gas that is produced by burning some types of fuel, especially petrol	The cause of death was given as carbon monoxide poisoning.	Cars also emit carbon monoxide and make the air unfit to breath.
evp	card	noun	1	A2	a folded piece of stiff paper with a picture on the front and a message inside, that you send to someone on a special occasion	birthday/get-well cards	I got a pretty hat and a birthday card from them.
evp	card	noun	2	A2	one of a set of 52 small rectangular pieces of stiff paper, each with a number and one of four signs printed on it, used in games	After dinner, Ted got out a pack of cards	Joe, Marie, Martin and Alison came so we played cards.
evp	card	noun	3	B1	a small piece of stiff paper or plastic that has information printed on it	a library card	It is important because my student card is in there.
evp	card	noun	4	B1	a part inside a computer which controls how the computer operates	a graphics/sound card.	Obviously, I completed the configuration with a sound card and the connection by modem to the internet, creating a powerful multimedia work station.
evp	card	noun	5	C2	to be likely to happen	Do you think marriage is in the cards?	
evp	cardboard	noun	1	B2	material like very thick stiff paper, usually pale brown in color, which is used especially for making boxes	a cardboard box	
evp	cardigan	noun	1	B2	a piece of clothing often made from wool, that covers the upper part of the body and fastens at the front	My worst present ever was an orange and green knit cardigan from my aunt.	I hope it will be warm enough that I only need a cardigan.
evp	career	noun	1	B1	the job or series of jobs that you do during your working life, especially if you continue to get better jobs and earn more money	He hasn't yet chosen a career.	I think it's important to learn English for my career in the future.
evp	career	noun	2	C2	the time that you spend doing a particular job	She began her acting career in TV commercials.	His tennis career was only a small introduction to his business career.
evp	carefree	adjective	1	C2	without any worries or problems	a carefree childhood	It reminded her of their far-away, carefree youth when they were energetic, healthy and full of hope.
evp	careful	adjective	1	A2	giving a lot of attention to what you are doing so that you do not have an accident, make a mistake, or damage something	Be careful with that knife.	I think you must be more careful.
evp	carefully	adverb	1	A2	with great attention	She carefully folded the letter and put it in her pocket.	Look at it carefully.
evp	careless	adjective	1	B1	not giving enough attention to what you are doing	careless driving/drivers	Car accidents happen every day, because many drivers are careless.
evp	carelessly	adverb	1	B2	in a careless way	He told me off for driving carelessly.	I broke your beautiful vase carelessly while I ran to answer the door.
evp	carelessness	noun	1	B2	the state of being careless	It's the carelessness with which he just throws stuff on the floor that annoys me.	Please forgive my carelessness. I'd like to bring a new one like yours when I come to you next time.
evp	cargo	noun	1	C2	goods that are carried in a vehicle	a cargo of oil	The ships that pass through the Schelde usually carry cargo such as oil, and different vitally important foods from abroad.
evp	caring	adjective	1	B2	describes someone who is kind and gives emotional support to others	I've always thought of Jo as a very caring person.	Of course I enjoyed staying with you. It was really a remarkable experience being able to live with a caring family like yours.
evp	carnival	noun	1	B2	a public celebration where people wear special clothes and dance and play music in the streets	I took the kids to the local carnival.	Of course it is not as good as the carnival in Rio!
evp	carnival	noun	2	B2	an entertainment event outdoors where there is food, machines you can ride on, and games that can be played for prizes	The annual carnival will be held at Harbor Island park next weekend.	According to your letter, you have decided to turn up the first week of July. This is great, because on the 5th and 6th of July there is a carnival.
evp	carpet	noun	1	A2	thick material for covering floors, often made of wool	We've got carpets in all the bedrooms.	Do we care about a new carpet or fashionable furniture? No, I do not think so.
evp	carriage	noun	1	C2	a vehicle with wheels that is pulled by a horse	a horse and carriage	The bride arrived in a open carriage pulled by horses surrounded by flowers.
evp	carrot	noun	1	A2	a long, thin orange vegetable that grows in the ground	raw carrot	You can just bring vegetables - tomatoes, carrots, cucumber and potatoes.
evp	carrot	noun	2	C2	something that is offered to someone in order to encourage them to do something	The carrot is the extra payment they will get if they finish the work on time.	Weiss['s] policy of dangling the carrot proved useful - he managed, literally, to hit two birds with one stone.
evp	carry	verb	1	A1	to hold something or someone with your hands, arms, or on your back and take them from one place to another	Let me carry your bag for you.	To help you I can carry some drinks and food.
evp	carry	verb	2	B1	to have something with you all the time	She still carries his photo in her purse.	It was my lucky T-shirt which I used to carry with me anywhere I would go.
evp	carry	verb	3	B2	to move someone or something from one place to another	The plane was carrying 300 passengers.	Jay's swimming trunks got carried away by that huge wave.
evp	carry	verb	4	C1	to have a disease that you might give to someone else	Mosquitoes carry malaria and other infectious diseases.	
evp	carry	verb	5	C2	to have something as a part, quality, or result of something	All cigarette advertising must carry a government health warning.	It is not something flashy or expensive but to me it is an object that carries great sentimental value.
evp	carry	verb	6	C2	to support the weight of something	Is the ice thick enough to carry my weight?	My legs hardly managed to carry my weight as we began to enter.
evp	carry	verb	7	C2	to be considered important and effective in influencing someone	His opinions carry a lot of weight with the scientific community.	It has become increasingly important to strive for near perfection in every move they make, the pursuit of excellence therefore carrying more weight than ever and leading to strenuous training programs.
evp	carry	verb	8	B2	to be so excited about something that you do not control what you say or do	There's far too much food - I'm afraid I got a bit carried away!	I was so very tired but the book was so interesting that I got carried away.
evp	carry	verb	9	B1	to continue doing something, or to cause something to continue	Let's carry on this discussion at some other time.	I promise that when I come back I'll carry on studying.
evp	carry	verb	10	B1	to do or complete something, especially something that you have said you would do or that you have been told to do	Nigel is carrying out research on early Christian art.	I will try to carry out my duties to the best of my ability.
evp	cart	noun	1	B2	a vehicle with two or four wheels that is pushed or pulled to carry large or heavy objects on	a shopping/grocery/luggage cart	I'm going to put my suitcase on my cart.
evp	cartoon	noun	1	A2	a film made using characters that are drawn and not real	Mickey Mouse and other famous cartoon characters	We are going to paint my room with cartoon characters.
evp	cartoon	noun	2	A2	a funny drawing, especially in a newspaper or magazine	He likes the cartoons that you get on the back page.	[My] present is a pack of cartoon books.
evp	carve	verb	1	C2	to make an object, a shape, or a pattern by cutting wood, stone, etc.	The statue was carved out of stone.	Odd symbols have been carved on both sides of its square handle.
evp	case	noun	1	A2	a container for storing or protecting something	a pencil case	You have to bring with you your pencil case, your books and your notebooks.
evp	case	noun	2	B1	a particular situation or example of something	Over fifty people were injured, in several cases seriously.	In this case, I suggest that you need to gather your friends and go to ask for it together.
evp	case	noun	3	B1	when something happens, or in preparation for when something happens	We keep a bucket of water backstage, in case of fire.	It is about how to rescue people in case of an accident or a natural disaster.
evp	case	noun	4	B1	because of a possibility of something happening, being needed, etc.	I don't think I'll need any money but I'll bring some just in case.	You can't forget to bring comfortable shoes in case you have to walk long distances while you are sightseeing.
evp	case	noun	5	B2	to be true	Bad diet can cause tiredness, but I don't think that's the case here.	Could you also please let me know if you're coming back in time for dinner because if that's the case I'll make a special dinner for us.
evp	case	noun	6	B2	used to give another reason for something you are saying, or that you have done	I don't want to go, and in any case I haven't been invited.	I suggest that you should in any case leave your car at home and take buses or other public means of transport.
evp	case	noun	7	B2	because of the mentioned situation	There's no coffee left? In that case I'll have tea.	You could try k]ayaking In that case, of course, you need to pay for the equipment.
evp	case	noun	8	B2	a crime that police are trying to solve	a murder case	They succeeded in solving a case too difficult even for the police.
evp	case	noun	9	B2	a matter to be decided by a judge in a court of law	The case will go before the European Court next month.	To summarize, we lost the case on the ground that he had a criminal background and that the girl's testimony wasn't reliable because she was in love with the man, as she confessed herself in court.
evp	case	noun	10	C2	an illness, or somebody with an illness	4,000 new cases of the disease are diagnosed every year.	Two years ago, Mr Slovac contacted us and told us that John had died of a severe case of malaria.
evp	case	noun	11	C2	arguments, facts, or reasons that prove a particular opinion	There is a strong case for/against passing the new legislation.	But there are other reasons which help make a case for tourism.
evp	cash	noun	1	A2	money in the form of notes and coins	Do you have any cash on you?	When I went to your house last night, I left my red bag - in there I have some cash and my glasses.
evp	cash	noun	2	B1	money in any form	I'm a bit short of cash at the moment.	There are a lot of hotels, but if you don't want to spend any cash you can stay at my place.
evp	cash machine	noun	1	B1	a machine, usually at a bank or store, that you can get money from using a plastic card	I got some money out from the cash machine.	[Are] there any cash machines near where we are staying?
evp	casserole	noun	1	C2	a mixture of meat, vegetables, or other foods cooked with liquid for a long time in the oven	a beef casserole	The "Quaint and Co[z]y," which faces our town's main square, is a classy place with a hint of irony: the atmosphere, quiet and relaxing, is what you need to taste a very special salmon e] croute, and a pork and orange casserole that eventually became the restaurant's second name.
evp	casserole	noun	2	C2	a large, heavy container with a lid, that is used for cooking casseroles	Bake the mixture in a casserole.	I remember going around the kitchen, looking for old used pans, casseroles and all kind of utensils which could call the attention of the people passing by.
evp	cast	noun	1	B2	all the actors in a film, play or show	After the final performance, the director threw a party for the cast.	We saw a romantic film with a famous cast.
evp	cast	verb	1	B2	to choose an actor for a particular part in a movie or play	Why is he always cast as a criminal?	And this "universal force" of this book made it possible to already have two cinematographic versions; the first, really similar to the book, casts Colin Firth as the main character, the second, an American version of the book, changed the football passion to a baseball madness, showing well how universal this story could be.
evp	cast	verb	2	C2	to vote	More than 30,000 citizens cast their votes in the last city election.	Every several years, in every country people have to make their choices during general elections. Often a great number of political parties encourage them to cast their votes according to the unemployment policy the candidates are supposed to introduce once they are appointed.
evp	cast	verb	3	C2	to try to remember	If you cast your mind back, you might recall that I never promised to go.	Thus, when I pick one of these stones, I cast my mind back to the specific place where I found it, the person I was, the particular moment.
evp	cast	verb	4	C2	to seem to use magic to attract someone	The city had cast a spell on me and I never wanted to leave.	Even objects that came indirectly into our possession may cast an emotional spell on us.
evp	cast	verb	5	C2	to use magic to make something happen to someone	The witch cast a spell on her.	The good fairy, taking pity upon Laura, prevented her from going on living without her prince - which would have been too painful for her - by casting a spell upon the castle that put every one of its inhabitants in]t a deep, dreamless sleep.
evp	cast	verb	6	C2	to make people feel uncertain about someone or something	Witnesses have cast doubt on the suspect's innocence.	Wars lead to suffering, tears and the death of many people. They cast doubt on our humanity and values, especially in countries where the right to live is the principal one.
evp	cast	verb	7	C2	to send light or shadow in a particular direction	The moon cast a white light into the room.	The first blush of the morning was casting a yellow soft light over the landscape.
evp	castle	noun	1	A2	a large strong building with towers and high walls that was built in the past to protect the people inside from being attacked	Warwick Castle	You could visit a really famous castle which is near my town.
evp	casual	adjective	1	B1	Casual clothes are comfortable clothes worn when there is no reason to dress in a formal way.	casual clothes	I mostly wear casual things, jumpers and jeans for example.
evp	casual	adjective	2	B2	not planned, or without particular meaning or importance	a casual meeting/remark	It was last summer, when I had a casual meeting with someone.
evp	casually	adverb	1	B2	in a casual way	She was dressed casually in shorts and a T-shirt.	I suggest that you and your group go dressed casually.
evp	casualty	noun	1	C2	someone who is injured or killed in an accident or war	Both sides in the conflict have promised to try to avoid civilian casualties.	As films, books and documentaries show, it was a real disaster, not only because the ship sank, but also due to the high number of casualties.
evp	cat	noun	1	A1	a small animal with fur, four legs and a tail that is kept as a pet	I saw that orange cat today.	We have two dogs, a cat and lots of birds.
evp	catalog	noun	1	B2	a book with a list of items, such as goods that you can buy from a business or pictures displayed in a museum	a mail-order catalog	You don't need to bring me back a gift, but, just in case you have planned to visit the MOMA, then I'd like their last exhibition catalog (you know, the one about fashion in the [Twentieth] Century).
evp	catastrophe	noun	1	C2	an extremely bad event that causes a lot of suffering or destruction	After the drought, the country is facing environmental catastrophe.	In Asian and African societies, where time is seen as a circle, rather than a straight line with a definite beginning and end, the legacy of past generations is regarded with due respect as the main source of wisdom and deliverance from natural catastrophes as well as everyday difficulties.
evp	catch	verb	1	A1	to take hold of something, especially something that is moving through the air	Try to catch the ball.	I like the competition, because it's interesting to see who can catch the ball and who can't.
evp	catch	verb	2	A1	to get on a bus, train, etc. in order to travel somewhere	He catches the 8:30 train into the city every morning.	I can catch the bus to Cheltenham.
evp	catch	verb	3	A2	to get an illness, especially one caused by bacteria or a virus	He's caught a cold.	I heard you caught a cold.
evp	catch	verb	4	B1	to find and stop a person or animal that is trying to escape	Did they ever catch the terrorists?	He gave me some good tips on how to catch some really large fish.
evp	catch	verb	5	B1	to start burning	The factory caught fire late yesterday evening.	One of the new machines that I had brought from Germany had caught fire.
evp	catch	verb	6	B2	to make someone notice something and feel interested	A ship out at sea caught his attention.	Most of the museums have very interesting objects displayed, but they don't know how to catch the visitor's attention.
evp	catch	verb	7	B2	to discover someone who is doing something wrong or something secret	He caught her reading his old love letters.	I learned a good lesson when I was caught cheating on a test at school last year.
evp	catch	verb	8	B2	If the police catch a criminal, they find them and take them away.	These terrorists must be caught.	The issue had been forgotten and the burglar was never caught.
evp	catch	verb	9	C1	to rest for a short time until you can breathe regularly again	Let's stop here and catch our breath.	Unfortunately, the rooms we stayed in were on the 4th floor. The older people couldn't catch their breath when they finally arrived there!
evp	catch	verb	10	C2	to be unable to avoid something unpleasant	I got caught in the rain.	I must apologize for my lateness as I was caught in the bad weather.
evp	catch	verb	11	C2	to stick somewhere, or to make something stick somewhere	My dress caught on the door handle as I was leaving.	No sooner did I start bicycling before my slacks got caught in the chain and with a curse coming from my lips I fell right into the neighbor's well trimmed shrubbery.
evp	catch	verb	12	C2	to see something suddenly, often only for a short time	He caught sight of himself in the mirror.	All we could see were people bursting into tears when they caught sight of his coffin.
evp	catch	verb	13	C2	to get someone's attention by looking at them	I tried to catch her eye, but she had already turned away.	All of a sudden she caught my eye and smiled in a sad way.
evp	catch	verb	14	C2	to be attractive or different enough to be noticed by people	It was the color of his jacket that caught my eye.	Dear Sir, I am writing regarding your newly published article about nutrition, which immediately caught my eye as I was reading your magazine.
evp	catch	verb	15	C2	to surprise someone by doing something when they are not ready to deal with it	The journalist caught him off guard and he admitted to lying.	It caught me off guard. This grotesque image shattered the comfort of a languid Sunday afternoon and for a few seconds hurled me into a world of pain.
evp	catch	verb	16	C1	to become popular	I wonder if the game will catch on with young people?	The commercial success of "Super agent" has resulted in introducing "Super agent II", the game which is supposed to present further adventures of the agent. Unfortunately, I don't think that it will catch on.
evp	catch	verb	17	C2	to understand something, especially after a long time	It took him a while to catch on to what we meant.	
evp	catch	verb	18	B2	to reach someone in front of you by going faster than them	I ran after her and managed to catch up with her.	I tried to catch up with the guide and the other tourists.
evp	catch	verb	19	C1	to reach the same level or quality as someone or something else	She's doing extra work to catch up with the rest of the class.	Her father did not really seem to hate her, after all, and if she was always left in the shadow, that happened because she did not do her best to catch up with her brothers.
evp	catch	verb	20	B2	to learn and discuss the newest facts about something	I'll call you tonight to catch up on all the gossip.	We could catch up on each other's news.
evp	catch	verb	21	C2	to become involved in a situation, often without wanting to	How did the paper get caught up in a legal dispute?	In order not to get caught up in a vicious circle, it's sensible just to study well and then be able to foresee the results of your actions.
evp	catch	verb	22	B1	to meet someone you know after not seeing them for a period of time and talk about what you have been doing	I caught up with him in Singapore a few years later.	You should catch up with me in Sicily, where you will be able to walk on the best beaches you have ever seen.
evp	catch	verb	23	C2	If something bad that you have done or that has been happening to you catches up with you, it begins to cause problems for you.	I can feel the stress of the last few weeks beginning to catch up with me.	
evp	catch	verb	24	B2	to do something that you did not have time to do earlier	I'm hoping to catch up on some sleep.	It gave me time to catch up with my reading and sleeping.
evp	category	noun	1	B2	a group of people or things of the same type	There are three categories - standard, executive and deluxe.	I belong to the category of people who think that society needs zoos.
evp	cater	verb	1	C1	to provide and often serve food and drinks for a particular event	We hired a local chef to cater our parents' anniversary party.	I can understand why you shortlisted these three proposals as all of them seem good enough to cater for our canteen.
evp	cater	verb	2	C1	to provide what is wanted or needed by a particular group of people	Our magazines cater to professionals such as lawyers and physicians.	Retail establishments have enhanced and multiplied their product offerings to cater to a wider market.
evp	catering	noun	1	B2	providing food and drinks for people	Who did the catering for the party?	All food, appetizers and refreshments will be provided by a catering company.
evp	cathedral	noun	1	A2	the largest and most important church in a particular area	Salisbury Cathedral	It's an interesting place because there is an important cathedral called Lujan Cathedral.
evp	cause	noun	1	B2	the reason why something, especially something bad, happens	The police are still trying to establish the cause of the fire.	Overworking can be a cause of many problems.
evp	cause	noun	2	C1	a principle or aim that a group of people support or fight for	The money will all go to a good cause.	It would be a shame if people got the wrong impression, that it is not worth working and making an effort for charity and good causes and I would certainly not like to believe that your paper contributed to giving that impression??
evp	cause	noun	3	C2	a reason to feel something or to behave in a particular way	He's never given me any cause for concern.	Nowadays, the world is filled with fast food restaurants, making diseases like obesity a cause for concern everywhere.
evp	cause	verb	1	B2	to make something happen, especially something bad	The difficult driving conditions caused several accidents.	It is troubling that young people are eating a less healthy diet nowadays than their grandparents did. This is caused mainly by changes in food and eating habits.
evp	caution	noun	1	C1	great care and attention not to take risks or get into danger	Travelers have been advised to exercise great caution when passing through the region.	Extreme caution has to be taken during push-back and engine start.
evp	caution	noun	2	C2	to take a risk	I decided to throw caution to the wind and book a ticket to India.	They just threw caution to the wind, and did what they wanted.
evp	caution	verb	1	C2	to warn someone of something	They were cautioned against traveling alone through the desert.	This is a totally unnecessary situation to be in and if possible, people should be cautioned about getting into such a habit.
evp	cautious	adjective	1	B2	taking care to avoid risks or danger	He's a very cautious driver.	You should be cautious and sensible.
evp	cave	noun	1	B1	a large hole in the side of a hill, cliff or mountain, or one that is underground	The area is also home to one of the largest underground cave and lake systems in Latin America.	The next day I went to see a cave with a blue lake inside it.
evp	CD	noun	1	A1	compact disc: a small disc on which music or information is recorded	His CD collection is huge.	Martin gave me a CD, Valeria gave me some make-up, and Juliana gave me a pink belt.
evp	CD player	noun	1	A1	a machine that is used for playing music CDs	She has a CD player in her bedroom.	My cousin bought me a CD player and I got a box of chocolates from my friends.
evp	CD-ROM	noun	1	B1	compact disc read-only memory: a disc that holds large amounts of information that can be read by a computer but cannot be changed	Cambridge dictionaries are available on CD-ROM.	
evp	cease	verb	1	B2	to stop	He ordered his men to cease firing.	I thought the ring was just inside my head, in the dream. But it didn't cease, making me realize it was something else, from outside the room.
evp	ceiling	noun	1	A2	the surface of a room which you can see when you look above you	Look at all those lights hanging from the ceiling.	I am going to use lilac for the walls and violet for the ceiling.
evp	ceiling	noun	2	C2	a limit on the amount that can be paid for something	They have set a ceiling on pay raises.	
evp	celebrate	verb	1	B1	to do something enjoyable because it is a special day, or because something good has happened	We always celebrate our wedding anniversary by going out to dinner.	We are going to celebrate my husband's birthday at home with some friends, so I'm preparing everything for the party.
evp	celebration	noun	1	B1	a special social event, such as a party, when you celebrate something, or the act of celebrating something	There were New Year's celebrations all over town.	He told me that he decided to marry and he invited me to the celebration in Paris in November.
evp	celebrity	noun	1	B1	someone who is famous, especially in the entertainment business	It's a celebrity gossip magazine.	When I was in London, I went to the Cosmopolitan Show and I entered a game to win one week with a fashion celebrity.
evp	cell	noun	1	B2	the smallest basic unit of a plant or animal	brain/blood cells	[...] such as, using gamma rays to damage the cancer cell or to treat people's short sight and so on.
evp	cell	noun	2	B2	a small room in a prison or police station where a prisoner is kept	He was kept in a prison cell for four months.	That's why six years after this I'm writing the story in my cold wet cell.
evp	cellar	noun	1	B2	a room under the ground floor of a building, usually used for storage	He keeps his wine in the cellar.	We were in the cellar of the old castle without a candle or even matches.
evp	cello	noun	1	B2	a large, wooden musical instrument with four strings that you hold between your knees to play	She plays the cello.	It was Beethoven, the 9th symphony. The cellos and violins, followed by the timpani...
evp	cell phone	noun	1	A1	a telephone that you can carry everywhere with you	Rory is always on his cell phone, either talking or texting.	I think I left my cell phone at your house.
evp	cemetery	noun	1	B2	a place where dead people are buried	She went to the cemetery where her grandfather was buried.	It was Halloween night and almost midnight, and Steve had the idea of going out to the nearest cemetery to catch some ghosts or vampires.
evp	cent	noun	1	A2	a unit of money worth 0.01 of the US dollar and of the main monetary unit of many countries, or a coin with this value	He spent eighty cents on a chocolate bar.	Last weekend I went with a few friends to the shopping center of my town, but I did]n' spend a cent.
evp	center	noun	1	A2	the middle point or part of something	There was a large table in the center of the room.	My new house is in the center of Rome.
evp	center	noun	2	A2	a place or a building used for a particular activity	a fitness/medical/community center	We can go to see the film tomorrow at 6:00 o'clock an then we can go to the shopping center.
evp	center	noun	3	C2	to receive more attention than anyone or anything else	He loves to be the center of attention.	He would have so much fun being the center of attention.
evp	center	noun	4	C2	a political position with opinions that are not extreme	His political views are left of center.	
evp	centigrade	noun	1	B2	a measurement of temperature in which water freezes at 0° and boils at 100°	Water boils at 100° centigrade.	The last few days I preferred to go swimming, because the temperature was above thirty degrees centigrade.
evp	centimeter	noun	1	A2	a unit of length equal to 0.01 of a meter	The picture measures fifty by thirty centimeters.	The teacher told us to bring with us some pencils, color pencils and a ruler (about 30 centimeters).
evp	central	adjective	1	B1	in or near the center of a place or object	central Europe/London	We could go for a walk to the park in the central area of my town.
evp	central	adjective	2	C1	in the main part of a town or city	Our offices are very central.	The house location is very central, it is in South Kensington and it is with]i walking distance of Gloucester Road Underground station.
evp	central	adjective	3	C1	controlled or organized in one main place	central authorities/government	The contribution of the central government seems to be inevitable to complete the project.
evp	central	adjective	4	C2	main or most important	a central character/figure	As a central character, Piggy works both as a real boy and a symbol.
evp	central heating	noun	1	B1	a system of heating a building by warming air or water in one place and carrying it to different rooms in pipes	The house had no central heating so in winter it was freezing.	I like this restaurant because it's cheap, big and tidy, and at the same time it has central heating and air conditioning.
evp	century	noun	1	A2	a period of 100 years, especially used in giving dates	the 21st century	I love it, because for me "The Beatles" is the best band of the century.
evp	century	noun	2	C2	the start of a new century	He was born at the turn of the century.	
evp	cereal	noun	1	A2	a food that is made from grain and usually eaten with milk, especially in the morning	a bowl of cereal	Usually, we have a good breakfast with toast, cereals, milk and juice, but it depends on each person.
evp	cereal	noun	2	C1	a plant that is grown to produce grain for food	cereal crops	During this part you can see cereal crops, mainly wheat.
evp	ceremony	noun	1	B1	a formal event that is performed on important social or religious occasions	a wedding/graduation ceremony	In July I'm going to get married to my girl friend, and the wedding ceremony is on 7th of July.
evp	certain	adjective	1	B1	completely sure of something, or knowing without doubt that something is true	I feel certain (that) you're doing the right thing.	I'm certain that in your country weddings are as wonderful as in Brazil.
evp	certain	adjective	2	B1	sure to happen, to do something, or to be true	It now looks certain that she will resign.	If I were you I'd choose the large school because it's certain that you'll find people there that think like you.
evp	certain	adjective	3	B1	used to refer to a particular person or thing without naming or describing them	The museum is only open at certain times of the day.	The last one I saw was called 'Spelling' and it was a kind of quiz where the competitors had to spell difficult words fast and finish at a certain time.
evp	certain	adjective	4	B2	used before a noun when it is difficult to describe something exactly or give its exact amount	He's got a certain charm.	There was still that gleam and a certain kind of pride which let me assume once she must have been a strong lady.
evp	certain	adjective	5	C1	to know something without doubt	We don't know for certain whether she's coming.	The rules may be considered a bit too strict, the teaching methods too "old-fashioned", but I know for certain that this course gives very good preparation in [Busi]ness English.
evp	certainly	adverb	1	A2	used to emphasize something and show that there is no doubt about it	I'll certainly be there.	Don't wear new clothes, you will certainly get dirty.
evp	certainly	adverb	2	A2	used to agree politely to a request	"Could you pass the salt, please?" "Certainly."	
evp	certainly	adverb	3	C1	used to strongly say “no,” or to emphasize that you know that something is not true or will not happen	"Will you be taking her there?" "Certainly not!"	Last, but certainly not least, is the malfunction that several exhibits experienced.
evp	certainty	noun	1	B2	when you are completely sure about something	I'm unable to answer that question with any certainty.	I can say with certainty that this town is just a treasure of Polish culture.
evp	certainty	noun	2	C2	something that is very likely to happen or cannot be doubted	There are no absolute certainties in life.	The Book is a Hitchcockian sequence of chases, shaken certainties, mistaken identities, masquerades and escapes.
evp	certificate	noun	1	B1	an official document that gives details to show that something is true	a birth/marriage/death certificate	You must have the PET certificate and you should speak another language.
evp	chain	noun	1	A2	a line of metal rings connected together	a bicycle chain	My best friend, Clara, gave me a silver chain. I like it a lot!!!
evp	chain	noun	2	B1	a number of similar stores, restaurants, etc. owned by the same company	a chain of hotels/stores/supermarkets	These days children have grown up with McDonalds and other fast-food chains.
evp	chain	noun	3	B2	a series of things that happen one after the other	a chain reaction	The problem began to increase because all her friends knew her secret. It was like a "chain reaction."
evp	chair	noun	1	A1	a seat for one person, that has a back, usually four legs, and sometimes two arms	He sat back in his chair.	You can sit on the chair outside and look at the bridge.
evp	challenge	noun	1	B1	something that is difficult and that tests someone's ability or determination	Finding a solution to this problem is one of the greatest challenges faced by scientists today.	I went with two friends from school, we had a big adventure there and we had to face many challenges.
evp	challenge	noun	2	C2	an expression of disagreement with ideas, rules, or someone's authority	a challenge to the authority of the President	The one occasion in which Jack seems childish is when his challenge to Ralph's leadership fails and he weeps with humiliation.
evp	challenge	verb	1	B2	to express disagreement with ideas, rules, or someone's authority	Children challenge their parents' authority far more nowadays than they did in the past.	His daughter had just challenged him and he was struggling for a decision.
evp	challenging	adjective	1	B1	difficult, in a way that tests your ability or determination	This has been a challenging time for us all.	Like cavaliers we ride across the country looking for adventures and challenging activities.
evp	champagne	noun	1	A2	French white wine with lots of bubbles in it which people often drink to celebrate something	We always celebrate our wedding anniversary with a bottle of champagne.	We are listening to music, dancing, drinking champagne.
evp	champion	noun	1	B1	a person, animal, or team that wins a competition	an Olympic champion	Last week I played with a person who was the world chess champion!
evp	champion	noun	2	C2	someone who supports, defends, or fights for a person, belief, or principle	a champion of human rights	What this argument attempts to show is that too much emphasis on them, perhaps accelerated by commercial interests, has let them act as if they were the champions of personal virtues.
evp	championship	noun	1	B1	a competition to find the best team or player in a particular game or sport	the national/world championships	I have a sailing championship, in which I must participate.
evp	chance	noun	1	B1	the possibility that something will happen	There's a chance (that) he'll still be there.	Is there any chance of borrowing your bicycle?
evp	chance	noun	2	B1	the opportunity to do something	I didn't get/have a chance to speak to her.	If you get a chance to learn to dance, you must do this because it is fun.
evp	chance	noun	3	B1	when something happens because of luck, or without being planned	I ran into her by chance in the supermarket.	By chance it was my camera.
evp	chance	noun	4	B2	a risk	I'm delivering my work by hand. I'm not taking any chances.	The chances of having an accident on a bicycle are bigger than in a car.
evp	chance	noun	5	C2	it is likely	Chances are that he'll refuse.	This was the case in London this summer, and with England's failing electricity system, chances are that this winter we will experience a similar situation.
evp	chance	noun	6	C2	to have a chance of success or of achieving something	He doesn’t stand much of a chance in the election.	Only those who are open-minded and really intelligent stand a chance of survival as the disaster is of world-wide extent and there can be no aid for the victims.
evp	chance	noun	7	C2	used to ask in a polite way whether something is possible or true	You're not Spanish by any chance, are you?	I pick up the phone "Hello, Nick have you by any chance got, or seen, my diary?
evp	chance	noun	8	C2	used to emphasize that there is no possibility of something happening	"Do you think she'd go out with me?" "No chance!"	
evp	chance	noun	9	C2	an equal and honest opportunity	All he asks is a fair chance to prove his innocence.	Then again, I think you have to give every job a fair chance.
evp	chance	noun	10	C2	If you blow it or blow your chance, you lose an opportunity to do something by doing or saying the wrong thing.	I blew it when I criticized the way she ran the office.	I'm giving you one last chance. If you blow it, you'll be sent to an Institution which treats people like you.
evp	chancellor	noun	1	C2	the leader of the government in some countries	the German chancellor	Besides the point that our current government has become very much immovable during the last decade, Chancellor Kohl ought to know very well about Germany's historical development since he had passed his exam in history.
evp	chancellor	noun	2	C2	a person with a high rank in a government or university	He became chancellor in 2010.	[He] soon rose to be the First Secretary in the Department of Finance, directly under the Chancellor of the Exchequer.
evp	change	verb	1	A1	to stop having or using one thing, and start having or using another	She's just changed jobs.	I changed job last month, and now I'm working in a nursery.
evp	change	verb	2	A2	to become different, or to make someone or something become different	The course changed my life.	My room doesn't change.
evp	change	verb	3	A2	to take off your clothes and put on different ones	You don't need to change - you look great as you are.	You can change your clothes here.
evp	change	verb	4	A2	to get off a train, bus, etc. and catch another in order to continue a journey	I had to change planes twice to get here.	On the return flight from Los Angeles, I had to change planes in Paris.
evp	change	verb	5	A2	to get or give someone money in exchange for money of a different type	Could you change a twenty for two tens?	Can I change money for US dollars there?
evp	change	verb	6	B1	to take something you have bought back to a store and exchange it for something else	I had to change the shirt I bought for a bigger size.	
evp	change	verb	7	B1	to form a new opinion or make a new decision that is different from your old one about something	If you change your mind about coming tonight, just give me a call.	After the first lesson, I changed my mind.
evp	change	verb	8	B2	to start talking about a different subject	I tried to explain, but he just changed the subject.	Well, changing the subject, I accidentally broke your beautiful vase. I'm really sorry, I'll try to find another vase that looks similar.
evp	change	noun	1	A2	when something becomes different, or the result of something becoming different	Let me know if there's any change in the situation.	Really, this bedroom needs a big change.
evp	change	noun	2	A2	when you stop having or using one thing and start having or using another	I've told the school about our change of address.	The reason for the change of class was mainly the teacher.
evp	change	noun	3	A2	a set of clean clothes you can put on if you need to take off the ones you are wearing	Make sure you bring a change of clothes.	If you want you can bring an extra change of clothes so we can get wet.
evp	change	noun	4	B1	the money which is returned to someone who has paid for something which costs less than the amount that they gave	I think you've given me the wrong change.	First of all, I helped selling tickets and drinks and there I realized how bad my math is - I took such a long time to give back the change!
evp	change	noun	5	B1	money which is coins rather than notes	She gave me $2 in change.	He asked me if I had any change.
evp	change	noun	6	B1	something which is pleasant or interesting because it is unusual or new	It's nice to see her smile for a change.	I am planning to paint my room yellow now for a change!
evp	change	noun	7	C2	If you have a change of heart, you change your opinion or feelings about something.	At first he said he wouldn't help us, but he seems to have had a change of heart.	The narrator didn't tell her big secret to Inder Lal and after a change of heart she decides to keep the baby.
evp	changeable	adjective	1	C1	often changing, or likely to change	The weather was very changeable last summer.	I must say that summers here are a bit mild and changeable.
evp	channel	noun	1	A2	a television station	a cable/broadcast channel	Recently, I'm enjoying that Simpsons cartoon. I really love it and now it's on channel fifteen.
evp	channel	noun	2	C2	a way of communicating with people or getting something done	a channel of communication	
evp	channel	verb	1	C2	to use money or energy for a particular purpose	We've channelled all our resources into this project.	In the same way that it shouldn't take the place of more important matters, there shouldn't be so much money channelled into it, especially when we want to see it as sport rather than business, and when there are so many other much fairer ends for that money.
evp	chaos	noun	1	B2	a state of total confusion with no order	Snow and ice have caused chaos on the roads.	There was chaos at the school.
evp	chaotic	adjective	1	C1	in a state of chaos	a chaotic situation	The Lawson House Hotel is situated 3km from Craniston village therefore you can expect a peaceful environment separated from the chaotic atmosphere of cities.
evp	chapel	noun	1	C2	a small church, or a room used as a church in a building	There is a small chapel on the grounds of the estate.	On one occasion we were taken to a small chapel that was in such a state of dilapidation that it was not worth climbing the stairs.
evp	chapter	noun	1	B1	one of the parts that a book is divided into	Read Chapter 3 before class tomorrow.	I promise you that I will read chapter 10 of the book, and I will make a resume for you.
evp	character	noun	1	B1	a person represented in a film, play or story	The story revolves around three main characters.	It is an action film which i] full of fights. Its name is "Thai Chi."The main charactor is "Jet Lee."
evp	character	noun	2	B1	the combination of qualities and personality that makes a person different from others	Politeness is traditionally part of the British character.	Mary had a strong character and faced her uncle with great courage.
evp	character	noun	3	B2	qualities that are interesting or unusual	a hotel with character	There are many very old houses with a lot of character and charm, which are just perfect for a photographer.
evp	character	noun	4	C1	an interesting or funny person whose behavior is different from most people's	Your grandmother is a real character.	Mr Brown is a great character.
evp	character	noun	5	C1	a letter, sign, or number that you use when you are writing or printing	Chinese characters	However, the poems are written in old Japanese characters which are difficult to understand.
evp	character	noun	6	C2	a particular kind of person	an unpleasant character	John was a gentle character, rather shy, but full of joy and happiness.
evp	characteristic	noun	1	B2	a typical or noticeable quality of someone or something	Unfortunately a big nose is a family characteristic.	Orwell gives the animals human characteristics and we can identify with them.
evp	characteristic	adjective	1	C2	typical of someone or something	Gray stone is characteristic of the buildings in that area.	But to be honest, food is the only feature which will stay as a characteristic aspect of a country.
evp	charge	verb	1	B1	to ask an amount of money for something, especially a service or activity	How much/What do you charge for delivery?	Be careful while you are in Brazil because sometimes people charge really high prices for everything just because you are a tourist.
evp	charge	verb	2	B2	If the police charge someone, they accuse them officially of a crime.	She's been charged with murder.	While Jem is accused of a minor crime, Joss is charged with smuggling.
evp	charge	verb	3	B2	to attack someone or something by moving forward quickly	The bull lowered its horns and charged.	They had water bombs and water pistols at the ready. They started charging down the field towards the fire and once in range everyone threw their balloon as far as they could.
evp	charge	verb	4	B2	to put electricity into something	I need to charge my cell phone - the battery is low.	
evp	charge	noun	1	B1	the amount of money that you have to pay for something, especially for an activity or service	There's no charge for children under ten.	It is free of charge and will give me a idea of this sport.
evp	charge	noun	2	B1	to be the person who has control of or is responsible for someone or something	She's in charge of a team of 20 people.	I talked to the man who was in charge and he convinced me that it was safe, so I did it.
evp	charge	noun	3	B2	to take control of or make yourself responsible for something	I was happy to let her take charge of the travel arrangements.	I am 21 years old which means that I can take charge of school children.
evp	charge	noun	4	C1	a formal police statement saying that someone is accused of a crime	The 19-year-old will be appearing in court on Thursday where she will face criminal charges.	He decided on the spot that if Paul was to return all the money he wouldn't press charges so he called his parents and asked them to find out where he was.
evp	charisma	noun	1	C2	a natural power which some people have to influence or attract people	He is a respected politician but he lacks charisma.	I admire people with heart and soul, with that real charisma which can only blossom in highly intelligent and spiritual people - this is what we call "intense personality."
evp	charismatic	adjective	1	C2	having a natural power to influence and attract people	Her mother was a very charismatic woman.	Some charismatic people have a great influence on others, and they are highly respected or praised.
evp	charity	noun	1	B1	an official organization that gives money, food, or help to people who need it, or money, food, or help that is given to people who need it	UNICEF is an international charity.	In the club, we do some charity work, helping people.
evp	charity	noun	2	C2	kindness towards other people	an act of charity	It is undeniable that nowadays the whole world is suffering from the lack of good personality models to follow. Models that ar] able to show the importance of charity, humility and other qualities so old-fashioned in our age.
evp	charm	noun	1	B2	a quality which makes you like or feel attracted to someone or something	a woman of great charm	It's an extremely severe and rugged sort of landscape with its own very special charm.
evp	charm	noun	2	C2	an object that you keep or wear because you believe that it is lucky	a lucky charm	Consequently, "the treasures" I took there were nothing but all the little gifts and lucky charms I had received from my boyfriend and friends.
evp	charm	verb	1	C2	to attract someone or persuade someone to do something because of your charm	We were charmed by his boyish manner.	She arrived in time for the ball held that night, and everybody was charmed by her looks and manners.
evp	charming	adjective	1	B1	pleasant and attractive	He's very charming.	He's charming, but he's too talkative and not romantic enough.
evp	chart	noun	1	B2	a drawing which shows information in a simple way, often using lines and curves to show amounts	a sales chart	Now I can create special charts at home.
evp	chart	noun	2	B2	an official list of the most popular songs each week	They're currently at the top of the charts with their single "Enough."	She gets to the people's hearts by music and she is now at the top of the charts with the song "Love me."
evp	chase	verb	1	B2	to run after someone or something in order to catch them	The dog was chasing a rabbit.	I could feel that the man was chasing after me.
evp	chase	verb	2	B2	to run after a person or animal to make them leave a place	I chased the cat away.	But one day, Napoleon said that his rival Snowball was a spy of the farmers and chased him away.
evp	chase	verb	3	C2	to try very hard to get something	There are hundreds of graduates chasing very few jobs.	I was tired and for the first time I started to take notice of the smirks on peoples faces as I walked past them, the silent laughter and I saw myself through their eyes; I was an old fool, chasing a ridiculous, flimsy dream.
evp	chat	verb	1	A2	to talk to someone in a friendly and informal way	She spends hours on the phone chatting with her friends.	We were eating, drinking and chatting at the party.
evp	chat	verb	2	A2	to have a conversation with someone who is online at the same time as you are by typing messages	We were chatting till well past midnight.	I can surf the Internet and chat with some friends.
evp	chat	verb	3	B2	to talk to someone in a way that shows them that you are sexually attracted to them	He spends hours in cafés, chatting up the waitresses.	Then he started to chat her up.
evp	chat	noun	1	A2	a friendly, informal conversation	Give me a call and we'll have a chat sometime.	Then we can go to Starbucks Café to have a chat after the film.
evp	chatty	adjective	1	C1	liking to talk	My sister is very chatty.	Both Mr Brown and Peter are chatty and not afraid of the camcorder.
evp	chatty	adjective	2	C1	A piece of writing that is chatty has a friendly and informal style.	a chatty letter/style	To be more specific, the articles will include events taken from our college life, written in a humorous, chatty way in order to help them see life in its positive aspect.
evp	cheap	adjective	1	A1	costing little money or less than is usual or expected	I got a cheap flight at the last minute.	The house rent is very cheap.
evp	cheap	adjective	2	C1	low in price and quality	I bought some cheap wine to cook with.	The scenery is very poor and the actor's clothes very cheap.
evp	cheat	verb	1	B2	to behave in a dishonest way in order to get what you want	Anyone caught cheating during the test will be immediately disqualified.	She also didn't want to cheat during the exam because it wouldn't be fair to anyone.
evp	cheat	verb	2	B2	to have a secret sexual relationship with someone who is not your usual sexual partner	She found out that Jeremy had been cheating on her.	In Cancun, I met another cute guy and I cheated on my boyfriend with him but that was just an affair, that did not mean anything to me.
evp	check	verb	1	A1	to put a mark by something written to show it is correct or has been done	Check the words you hear on the recording.	
evp	check	verb	2	A2	to examine something to make sure it is correct or the way it should be	Always check your oil, water and tires before taking your car on a long trip.	I think I left it in your bedroom. Can you check, please?
evp	check	verb	3	B1	to find out about something	I called them yesterday to check when they will arrive.	I called the company to check whether I really had won the jackpot.
evp	check	verb	4	B2	to ask someone for permission to do something	I'd like to stay overnight, but I need to check with my parents.	I'll be there at 4:00 the next day which will be the 5th. Would you check with your neighbors again, please?
evp	check	verb	5	B1	to go to the counter at an airport, so that you can be told where you will be sitting and so that your bags can be put on the aircraft	Passengers must check in two hours before the flight.	I had to check in at 2:15 pm.
evp	check	verb	6	B1	to say who you are when you arrive at a hotel so that you can be given a key for your room	Check in at the reception desk when you arrive.	We checked in at the hotel and we all went to bed early that night.
evp	check	verb	7	C1	to try to discover how something is progressing or whether someone is doing what they should be doing	My boss is always checking up on me.	
evp	check	verb	8	B1	to leave a hotel after paying and returning your room key	We checked out of our hotel at 5 a.m. to catch a 7
a.m. flight.	[On] the last day we decided to stay in the hotel because we had to check out at noon.
evp	check	verb	9	C1	to examine something or get more information about it in order to be certain that it is true, safe, or suitable	We'll need to check out his story.	Go and check it out: 1st Avenue, Ipanema. "PIANTELLA RESTAURANT." It is one of the most sophisticated restaurants in Rio.
evp	check	verb	10	C1	to go to a place in order to see what it is like	Let's check out that new dance club.	
evp	check	noun	1	A2	a piece of paper printed with information about your bank account that you use instead of money to pay for things	I still pay many of my bills by check.	I'll send you a check tomorrow morning.
evp	check	noun	2	A2	a mark (✓) put by something written to show it is correct or has been done	Put a check by the names of the people mentioned in the story.	
evp	check	noun	3	A2	a piece of paper given to you at a restaurant that shows how much you must pay for what you ate and drank	"Would you like anything else?" "No, just the check, please."	I paid the check and quickly left that restaurant.
evp	check	noun	4	B1	an examination of something in order to make certain that it is correct or the way it should be	We gave our diving equipment a final check before setting off.	I have to do some medical checks on my dog because I think it is very sick and may have a problem with its throat.
evp	check-in (counter)	noun	1	B1	the place at an airport where you show your ticket so that you can be told where you will be sitting	A representative from the tour operator will meet you at the check-in.	After we had finished having coffee] we went to the check-in.
evp	checkout	noun	1	B1	the place in a store, especially a large food store, where you pay for the things you are buying	There were long lines at the checkout.	Last summer I worked at a checkout which was stressful but I liked it, even though I had to work from 8pm to 6 am.
evp	checkout	noun	2	B1	the place on a Web site where you order and pay for the things you are buying	Click here to proceed to checkout.	
evp	cheek	noun	1	B1	the soft part of your face which is below your eye and between your mouth and ear	rosy cheeks	I kissed him on the cheek and I left him.
evp	cheer	verb	1	B2	to give a loud shout of approval or encouragement	Everyone cheered as the winners received their medals.	When she had finished, she felt satisfied and so did the audience who cheered for Louise.
evp	cheer	verb	2	C2	to shout loudly in order to encourage someone in a competition	The race was tough, but I could hear all my friends cheering me on.	People rush to the stadiums and gyms to cheer on their favorites or spend long hours in front of the TV with their fingers crossed hoping for a win.
evp	cheer	verb	3	B2	If someone cheers up, or something cheers them up, they start to feel happier.	She was very sick so I sent her some flowers to cheer her up.	My sister tried to cheer me up but she couldn't.
evp	cheer	noun	1	C2	a shout of approval or encouragement	His speech was drowned out by cheers.	They were welcomed onto the stage in their home town by deafening cheers from their fans.
evp	cheerful	adjective	1	B1	happy and positive	He's usually pretty cheerful.	Her fiancé is very kind and cheerful.
evp	cheerful	adjective	2	B2	describes a place or thing that is bright and pleasant and makes you feel positive and happy	The doctor's waiting room was bright and cheerful with yellow walls and curtains.	I think, first of all we should plant more flowers. It'd always give the village a more cheerful aspect.
evp	cheerfully	adverb	1	B2	in a cheerful way	She walked down the road, whistling cheerfully.	I was looking at them very cheerfully and sometimes involving myself in their discussions.
evp	cheerfulness	noun	1	C2	the state of being happy or bright and pleasant to look at	His cheerfulness made us all feel better.	Bright colors are identified with cheerfulness and happiness and dark colors with sadness or feeling down.
evp	cheese	noun	1	A1	a food made from milk, which can either be firm or soft and is usually yellow or white in color	a slice of cheese	[In a salad,] I like onion, c]arrots beans, garlic, green salad, sunflower oil and cheese.
evp	chef	noun	1	A2	a skilled and trained cook who works in a hotel or restaurant, especially the most important cook	He is one of the top chefs in Britain.	I want to study cooking, because I want to be a chef. (1983224; Skills for Life (Entry 2); ; A2 WAYSTAGE; 2007; Cantonese; ?)
evp	chemical	noun	1	B2	a basic substance that is used in chemistry or produced by chemistry	The government has pledged to reduce the amount of chemicals used in food production.	There are a lot of chemicals and sewage in the river Dollmitz and the lakes, too.
evp	chemical	adjective	1	B2	relating to chemicals	a chemical reaction	In the latter many chemical reactions may be reproduced to show the students the final compounds generated.
evp	chemist	noun	1	B1	a person who studies chemistry, or a scientist who works with chemicals or studies their reactions	Is he a chemist or a physicist?	I had been working in a factory because I am a chemist, but one day I decided to change my work and my life.
evp	chemistry	noun	1	A2	the scientific study of substances and the different ways in which they react or combine with other substances	She studied chemistry in college.	On the day of her birthday, I will ask her to help me with my homework for chemistry (she is really smart).
evp	cherry	noun	1	B2	a small, round, soft red or black fruit with a single hard seed in the middle	cherry trees	There was a big cherry tree, and there, on the top, was Trouble the cat]
evp	chess	noun	1	A2	a game that two people play by moving differently shaped pieces around a board of black and white squares	Do you play chess?	Let's play chess on Sunday afternoon.
evp	chest	noun	1	B2	the front part of your body, between your neck and your waist, containing your heart and your lungs	He was shot in the chest.	She tried to get her weapon, but then a bullet hit her chest like a hammer.
evp	chest	noun	2	C2	to tell someone about something that you have been worried or angry about for a long time	Tell me what's wrong - you'll feel better if you get it off your chest.	Chris is always caring and lends you his ear if there's something you need to get off your chest.
evp	chest	noun	3	C2	a strong, usually wooden, container with a lid, used for keeping things in	a treasure chest	The woman opened a heavy wooden chest and produced the book, after trying to sweep off a little of the dirt.
evp	chest of drawers	noun	1	B1	a piece of furniture for keeping clothes in	We need a chest of drawers for Oliver's bedroom.	I bought a chest of drawers and put it next to the door.
evp	chew	verb	1	B2	to crush food into smaller, softer pieces with the teeth so that it can be swallowed	This meat is difficult to chew.	Next, when you eat something, please chew it for a long time.
evp	chew	verb	2	B2	to repeatedly bite something without swallowing it	She was chewing gum.	Students couldn't chew bubble-gum, smoke or eat sweeties in school, but they do now.
evp	chewing gum	noun	1	B1	a soft, flavored substance that you chew but do not swallow	Would you like a piece/stick of chewing gum?	Some visitors to the zoo feed them with forbidden things like sugar or they give them chewing gum.
evp	chicken	noun	1	A2	a type of bird kept on a farm for its eggs or its meat	A male chicken is called a cock and a female chicken is called a hen.	
evp	chicken	noun	2	A2	the meat of a chicken	We're having roast/fried chicken for dinner.	My favorite food is chicken.
evp	chief	adjective	1	B2	most important or main	The chief problem we have in the area now is the spread of disease.	This is the chief argument of those who do not agree with zoos.
evp	chief	adjective	2	B2	highest in rank	He is the chief economic adviser to the government.	Bob Wilson, the chief accountant, had resigned.
evp	chief	noun	1	B2	the person in charge of a group or organization	a police chief	I saw her one day, and she told me that she had been promoted to chief of section.
evp	child	noun	1	A1	a boy or girl who is not yet an adult, or a son or daughter of any age	an eight-year-old child	My children are very happy because they are going to school every day.
evp	childhood	noun	1	B1	the time when someone is a child	She had an unhappy childhood.	The e-mail was from somebody who I haven't heard about since my childhood.
evp	childish	adjective	1	B2	Childish behavior is silly, like that of a small child.	Don't be so childish!	In comparison with other countries' tourists, they seem to be a little childish, just like a group of ducklings or chickens.
evp	childish	adjective	2	B2	typical of a child	childish handwriting	I heard a childish voice saying to me "Take my hand."
evp	chili	noun	1	B1	a spicy, red pepper	a chili pepper	The food is very nice, but is very hot. They eat much chili and pepper.
evp	chili	noun	2	C2	a spicy dish made with beans, chilies, and usually meat	a bowl of chili	I come from Mexico and normally people relate Mexico with chili and Tequila, whereas we relate fish and chips with England, sausages and s]au[erk]rou with Germany, pasta with Italy [. . .] and delicious desserts with Austria.
evp	chilly	adjective	1	C1	unpleasantly cold	a chilly evening	Before I forget, the weather is getting a bit chilly here, bring something warm with you.
evp	chimney	noun	1	B2	a hollow structure that allows the smoke from a fire inside a building to escape to the air outside	Factory chimneys belched dense white smoke into the sky.	The reason is half for my own health and fitness and half for the health of my town, which is polluted by lead, the smoke from chimneys and other artificial poisons.
evp	chin	noun	1	B1	the bottom part of a person's face, below their mouth	Fasten the helmet's strap under your chin.	I'm just about 20cm taller and I've grown whiskers on my chin, which is quite an uncommon look.
evp	chip	noun	1	B2	a very small part of a computer that stores information	a silicon chip	Even in cars and washing machines there're computer chips.
evp	chip	noun	2	C2	to blame other people for something bad that has happened to you and continue to feel angry about it	She's always had a real chip on her shoulder because she didn't go to college.	I suppose that I have a chip on my shoulder!
evp	chip	verb	1	C2	If several people chip in, they each give money to pay for something together.	We all chipped in to buy our teacher a present.	If you say it's on you they will offer to chip in and you can always say politely: "Sure, why not."
evp	chocolate	noun	1	A1	a sweet, usually brown, food that is prepared and sold in a block, or a small sweet made from this	a bar of chocolate	I like chocolate and ice-cream with fruit.
evp	chocolate	noun	2	A2	a sweet drink made with chocolate and hot milk	Two hot chocolates and a cappuccino, please.	We like to drink tea or hot chocolate.
evp	choice	noun	1	B1	when you can choose between two or more things, or the decision to choose one thing or person and not someone or something else	If I had a choice, I'd give up work.	I'm very sorry that I can't make the choice for you.
evp	choice	noun	2	B1	the range of different things from which you can choose	There wasn't much choice on the menu.	There is a very wide choice of activities!
evp	choice	noun	3	B1	a person or thing that has been chosen or that can be chosen	Harvard was not his first choice.	For me, the best choice is to come to the city.
evp	choir	noun	1	B2	a group of people who sing together, often in a church or a school	He sings in the church choir.	I have sung in the church's choir for three years, and I have had singing classes at school since first grade.
evp	cholesterol	noun	1	C1	a type of fat in your body that can cause heart disease if you have too much	The doctor said I had high cholesterol.	Hong Kong people have become fatter and fatter due to the adoption of Western food which is rich in fat and cholesterol.
evp	choose	verb	1	A1	to decide what you want from two or more things or possibilities	Danny, come here and choose your ice cream.	You can choose between red or black. I chose the black one.
evp	chop	verb	1	B2	to cut something into pieces with an axe, knife, or other sharp instrument	He was chopping wood in the yard.	You would use them to chop vegetables.
evp	chop	verb	2	C2	to cut through something to make it fall down	We chopped down the old apple tree.	We send people to chop down trees and to extract materials such as metals so that we can demonstrate our expensive possessions.
evp	chore	noun	1	C1	a boring job that you must do	I find cooking a real chore.	The speed of "modern" life has increased and we do not have enough time to do the chores like ironing any more.
evp	chronic	adjective	1	C2	A chronic illness or problem continues for a long time.	a chronic shortage of nurses	The daily and nightly disturbance of our lives causes chronic fatigue and high levels of irritation among the people, thus creating a most unwanted situation which should be ended as soon as possible.
evp	church	noun	1	A2	a building for Christian religious activities	The town has four churches.	But the most interesting place is a very old garden, because there is a beautiful church from the [16th] century.
evp	cigarette	noun	1	A2	a small paper tube filled with cut pieces of tobacco, which people smoke	a pack of cigarettes	It's pink and I like it because it is as small as a cigarette packet.
evp	cinema	noun	1	B1	a building where you go to watch movies	independent/art-house cinema	I will see you in the 4th avenue cinema.
evp	cinema	noun	2	C1	the art or business of making movies	an article about French cinema	In my opinion, this is a really fascinating film, not only for nature and wildlife lovers, but for everybody who likes good cinema.
evp	circle	noun	1	A2	a continuous curved line, the points of which are always the same distance away from a fixed central point, or the area inside such a line	Colored paper was cut into circles, squares and triangles.	She asked us to sit in a circle.
evp	circle	noun	2	B2	a group of people with family, work or social connections	She's not one of my close circle of friends.	His name is Omar Naber and he has quite a big circle of fans in Slovenia, although most of them are kids.
evp	circle	verb	1	B1	to draw a circle around something	Circle the answer you think is correct.	
evp	circle	verb	2	C2	to move in a circle, often around something	Birds circled above the trees.	Huge waves from the Atlantic were smashing into the cliffs with a deafening roar, while birds circled the sky high above us.
evp	circuit	noun	1	C2	a path, route, or race track that is shaped like a circle	There is a fitness circuit in the woods.	And so it was no wonder that I went to the Suzuka circuit where the F-1 Grand Prix was held, which had already become one of the biggest events at that time.
evp	circuit	noun	2	C2	a complete circle that an electric current travels around	an electrical circuit	Apparently there was a short circuit to the elevator circuit, as we were to learn later from the store supervisor.
evp	circuit	noun	3	C2	a regular series of places or events that people involved in a particular activity go to	the tennis circuit	Soon after, while he attended high school, he was already playing the New Jersey Club circuit, already showing traces of his persistence.
evp	circular	adjective	1	B2	shaped like a circle	a circular rug	People who congratulate the marrying couple take a circular sweet.
evp	circular	adjective	2	C2	used to describe an argument which keeps returning to the same points and is not effective	a circular argument/theory	
evp	circulation	noun	1	C2	the movement of blood around your body	Exercise improves your circulation.	This is a very unhealthy habit, because we could have some problems with our circulation and also we could suffer from pains in the joints.
evp	circulation	noun	2	C2	the number of copies of a newspaper or magazine that are sold each day, week, etc.	The paper's circulation has fallen recently.	Being on top of the media world is something that has required hard work and competence and in a business where newspaper circulation depends on the political profile of the paper, he is not afraid of making a comment on current affairs.
evp	circumstance	noun	1	B2	a fact or event that makes a situation the way it is	I think she coped very well under the circumstances.	I will never forget the circumstances which brought us together.
evp	circus	noun	1	B1	a show in which a group of people and animals perform in a large tent	a circus ring	In the afternoon you can just go walking if you are not in a mood to do something exciting, but if are, you can go to the circus.
evp	citizen	noun	1	B2	someone who lives in a particular town or city	The citizens of Moscow woke up this morning to find they had a new government.	I think that it is a really good idea to make a film about our town and its citizens.
evp	citizen	noun	2	B2	someone who has a legal right to live in a particular country	He applied to become an American citizen.	I'm an American citizen because my mother comes from Queens, New York.
evp	city	noun	1	A1	a large town	the city of Boston	I visit this city every year in June.
evp	civil	adjective	1	C1	relating to the ordinary people or things in a country and not to military or religious organizations	They married in a civil ceremony.	The wedding will occur first in the church, and then in front of the Mayor, who will personally come to the castle for the civil wedding.
evp	civilian	noun	1	C2	someone who is not a member of a military organization or the police	Several civilians were killed in the attack.	Twenty peple were killed in an ambush on a UN convoy transferring injured civilians to the country's central hospital.
evp	civilization	noun	1	B2	human society with its well-developed social organizations, or the culture and way of life of a society or country at a particular period in time	Some people think that nuclear war would mean the end of civilization.	Since the beginning of civilization, man has been looking for comfort and better ways to do things.
evp	civilization	noun	2	C1	when people have an advanced and comfortable way of life	modern civilization	Even if this idea is idealistic, some think that they will take advantage of all the benefits of modern civilization.
evp	claim	verb	1	B2	to say that something is true or is a fact, although you cannot prove it and other people might not believe it	The company claims (that) it is not responsible for pollution of the river.	Some people claim that keeping animals in zoos is cruel and unnecessary.
evp	claim	verb	2	B2	to ask for something because it belongs to you or you think you have the right to have it	She claimed $1,200 on her expense account.	I also would like to claim a refund for the evening.
evp	claim	verb	3	C2	to say that you have done or achieved something	No one has claimed responsibility for yesterday's bomb attack.	
evp	claim	noun	1	B2	a written request asking an organization to pay you a sum of money which you believe they owe you	an insurance claim	This wasn't "my perfect evening out", and I would like to make a claim for half the money back.
evp	claim	noun	2	C1	a statement that something is true or is a fact, although other people might not believe it	She rejected claims that she had lied.	To correct your claims about our target figure and the result of the day, I enclose a sheet displaying an income pie chart]
evp	clap	verb	1	B1	to hit your hands together, often repeatedly, especially in order to show you enjoyed a performance	The audience clapped and cheered for more.	Every[thing] was nice till I clapped my hands to call the waiter to get the bill.
evp	clap	noun	1	C2	a sudden, loud sound that is made by thunder	We heard a clap of thunder.	Suddenly, I heard a loud clap of thunder.
evp	clarification	noun	1	C1	an explanation which makes something clearer or easier to understand	Please contact this office again if you require further clarification.	If any tricky questions come up you simply stay calm and ask for a clarification.
evp	clarify	verb	1	C1	to make something easier to understand by explaining it	The law aims to clarify building regulations.	Could you clarify this situation for me, please?
evp	clarity	noun	1	C2	the quality of being clear and easy to understand	She described the process with great clarity.	Jonathon, the eldest, is like his mother (and for that matter, like his father too!) a verbally very gifted person who already expresses himself with great clarity and a lot of understanding and afterthought as well as creativity.
evp	clash	verb	1	C2	to fight or argue	Government troops clashed with rebel soldiers.	From the very beginning their two characters clashed and the relationship had only been deteriorating.
evp	clash	verb	2	C2	If colors or styles clash, they do not look good together.	You can't wear pink lipstick - it clashes with your dress.	She wore lemon green trousers and a pink top and she didn't seem to mind that those colors clashed.
evp	clash	verb	3	C2	If two events clash, they happen at the same time so that you cannot go to them both.	Emma's party clashes with my brother's wedding.	
evp	clash	noun	1	C2	a fight or argument	There were violent clashes between the police and demonstrators.	Firstly, it has to be considered that Things fall apart is set in the 1890s and it portrays the clash between white colonialists and the indigenous Igbo people.
evp	clash	noun	2	C2	when ideas or qualities are very different, and this causes problems	a clash of personalities	Since people's material interests are similar, having competitiveness as the only measurement for personal virtue only creates an endless competition that eventually will lead to a clash of interests.
evp	class	noun	1	A1	a group of students who have lessons together	Which class are you in this year?	I have some friends in the class.
evp	class	noun	2	A1	a period of time in which students are taught something	My last class ends at 4 o'clock.	I have one class a week with Miss Liz, she is my teacher.
evp	class	noun	3	A2	a group into which goods, services or people are put according to their standard	first- class mail	
evp	class	noun	4	B2	a group of people within society who have the same economic and social position	The tax reforms are aimed at providing relief for the middle class.	The second film is called "Upper class first" and it describes how rich people live.
evp	class	verb	1	C1	to put someone or something in a particular group according to their qualities	The tower is classed as a historic monument.	All things considered, the d]a could be classed as a success.
evp	classic	adjective	1	B2	A classic book, film, etc. is one that has been popular for a long time and is considered to be of a high quality.	a classic film/novel/story	I am fond of reading different books, especially classic literature.
evp	classic	noun	1	B2	a piece of writing, a musical recording or a film which has been popular for a long time and is considered to be of a high quality	Jane Austen's "Pride and Prejudice" is a classic of English literature.	Wuthering Heights is a classic, which everybody knows about.
evp	classification	noun	1	C2	the process of putting people or things into groups by their type, size, etc., or one of these groups	the classification of plants	Cinema attendance between 1990 and the present, with projections to 2010, is reported with the classification of four age groups: (i) 14-24 years old (ii) 25-34 years old (iii) 35-49 years old (iv) over 50 years old respectively.
evp	classify	verb	1	C1	to put people or things into groups by their type, size, etc.	A third of the population has been classified as poor.	The paintings will be classified according to their subject and our guests will have the chance to see them and talk with the creators.
evp	classmate	noun	1	A2	someone who is in your class at school	He went on a school trip with his classmates.	Our classmates, Christine, Alice, Michael and Peter were there.
evp	classroom	noun	1	A1	a room in a school or college where groups of students are taught	The classrooms are large and have big windows.	I don't like my classroom o] the 2nd floor.
evp	clause	noun	1	B2	a group of words containing a subject and a verb, that is usually only part of a sentence	In the sentence "I can't cook very well but I can make a good omelette," both "I can't cook very well" and "I can make a good omelette" are main clauses.	
evp	clean	adjective	1	A1	not dirty	a clean white shirt	I like this place, because I have got a beautiful room. It is very clean and nice.
evp	clean	adjective	2	C2	showing that you have not done anything illegal	a clean driving record	Of course, it is a strain to portray a clean image and avoid scandals.
evp	clean	verb	1	A1	to remove dirt from something	I'm going to clean the windows this morning.	She cleans the house every day.
evp	clean	verb	2	C2	to take everything out of a room, car, container, etc. and clean the inside of it	I cleaned out the fridge this morning.	The owner, an almost illiterate woman, claimed to have come across the diary as she was cleaning out the attic.
evp	clean	verb	3	C1	to make something clean and neat	You need to clean up your room.	I usually clean up my room once a week myself, and the cleaner does it on every Tuesday.
evp	clean	verb	4	C1	to remove pollution from somewhere	They are developing processes to clean up polluted rivers.	I can also help by distributing leaflets which contain information on how to start cleaning up the environment.
evp	cleaner	noun	1	A2	someone whose job is to clean houses, offices, public places, etc.	Our cleaner comes on Wednesdays.	I am working in Romford Abbey bank as a cleaner.
evp	cleaner	noun	2	C1	a store where clothes are cleaned with chemicals	I took my dress to the cleaner's.	
evp	clear	adjective	1	A2	easy to understand, hear, read or see	clear instructions/directions	It's clear and easy to use.
evp	clear	adjective	2	A2	If something is clear, you can see through it.	clear glass	I go to there every year, because the water of the lake is very clear and I like swimming in this lake.
evp	clear	adjective	3	B1	A clear sky does not have any clouds.	clear blue skies	When we went to San Martin de los Andes, we could see seven lakes and different kinds of trees and the sky was always clear.
evp	clear	adjective	4	B1	certain or obvious	Are you clear about how to get there?	Are you clear about the questions?
evp	clear	adjective	5	C1	not covered or blocked by anything	a clear road	While banning the private cars brings with it less congestion, less air pollution and clear roads, it also carries major concerns for people's traveling needs. Should there not be a proper transport infrastructure in place in the city?
evp	clear	adjective	6	C1	extremely clear	crystal clear water	You will be amazed by the crystal clear water of the shallow sea and the multitude of colourful fish which you will see as you ar] exploring the bottom of the sea.
evp	clear	adjective	7	C2	very easy to understand	She made it crystal clear that she was in charge.	They do learn something of course, but it is crystal clear that they need some help from you to develop their ability, creativity, sensitivity and so on.
evp	clear	verb	1	B2	to remove all the objects or people from a place	It took several hours to clear the road after the accident.	I cleared the stage before the concert, but you ca]n' imagine how it looked after it?!!!
evp	clear	verb	2	C2	to get rid of bad feelings between two people or groups less	It was an unpleasant argument, but at least it cleared the air.	I rushed into the room to cheer them up and clear the air, although I knew it was too late.
evp	clear	verb	3	C1	to make a place neat by removing things from it, or putting them where they should be	We need to clear away these tree branches that were knocked down in the storm	After clearing away the worst mess, she opened the left drawer, and there it was!
evp	clear	verb	4	B2	to give an explanation for something, or to deal with a problem or argument	Before we sign the contract, there are a few points we should clear up.	I hope this will clear up your problem.
evp	clear	verb	5	B2	If the weather clears up, it improves and becomes sunny.	I hope the weather clears up before this afternoon.	For the first two days the weather was so bad that we couldn't reach the beach but finally the sky cleared up.
evp	clear	noun	1	C2	not in a difficult situation or having problems any more	We had some large debts, but we should be in the clear by next year.	"You're in the clear, you don't have to be afraid any more," it said.
evp	clear	adverb	1	C2	to avoid someone or something because they are unpleasant or dangerous	Steer clear of Tony this morning - he's in a bad mood.	Eating healthy doesn't mean starving, eating plants or steering clear of meat.
evp	clear	adverb	2	C2	If you remain clear of something you stay away from or avoid it.	Stand clear of the doors, please.	Especially young readers kept clear of the town library with its reputation of being a place for old people.
evp	clearly	adverb	1	A2	in a way that is easy to see, hear, read or understand	He spoke very clearly.	I can't see clearly without them.
evp	clearly	adverb	2	A2	in a way that is not confused	I'd had two hours' sleep and wasn't thinking clearly.	But I don't remember clearly.
evp	clearly	adverb	3	B1	used to show that you think something is obvious or certain	The accident was clearly the truck driver's fault.	It was clearly not for me, because it came from a girl called Carol who wanted to talk to some guy named John.
evp	clever	adjective	1	B1	effective and showing intelligence	a clever idea	My friend told me that he saw a really nice loft bed. I think it's a clever idea.
evp	cliché	noun	1	C2	something that is said or done too often, so that it becomes boring or without meaning	Her writing is full of clichés.	Prejudices and clichés are part of our state of mind, they travel with us and we won't avoid them by going abroad.
evp	clichéd	adjective	1	C2	said or done too often and therefore boring or without real meaning	He made some clichéd remark about the birth of his first child completely changing his life.	Well, I do agree with this clichéd wording.
evp	click	verb	1	A2	to press on part of a computer mouse to make the computer do something	If you want to open a file, click twice on the icon for it.	I did click to e-mail and then the monitor color changed to black.
evp	click	verb	2	C2	to suddenly understand something	Suddenly everything clicked and I realized where I'd met him.	Now it all clicked into place... Those flimsy excuses he gave her: "No, this Saturday I can't make it."
evp	click	verb	3	C2	to make a short, sharp sound, or to use something to make this sound	The door clicked shut behind him.	The back-door key clicked when I unlocked the door.
evp	click	verb	4	C2	If two people click, they like each other immediately.	We met in college and we just clicked.	She went to a house party and they met there. They clicked immediately and the next day they were calling each other.
evp	click	noun	1	A2	a press on part of a computer mouse	You can get the information with a single click.	I could have written a letter in a bottle but waiting for the answer would take a decade, now it's just a click of a button.
evp	client	noun	1	B2	someone who pays someone else for services or advice	We're losing a lot of our clients.	The motto of the staff there is: "the client is always right."
evp	cliff	noun	1	B1	a high area of rock with a very steep side, often on a coast	Keep well away from the edge of the cliff.	This hotel is on a cliff, and has good views]
evp	climate	noun	1	B1	the weather conditions that an area usually has	a hot/dry/cold/wet climate	The climate of Brazil is typically tropical so the weather is gorgeous.
evp	climate	noun	2	C2	the situation, feelings, and opinions that exist at a particular time	the political/social climate	Hence the Narrator lives in a more peaceful period than Olivia's and only in this context could Olivia's experiences be regarded as more stimulating because they are inevitably involved with the unstable political climate.
evp	climate change	noun	1	B2	the way the Earth's weather is changing	Climate change is the greatest environmental challenge facing the world today.	
evp	climb	verb	1	A2	to use your legs, or your legs and hands, to go up or onto the top of something	climb a ladder/mountain/tree	It is better if you can wear a T-shirt and short pants so it is easier to climb.
evp	climb	verb	2	B2	to move into or out of a small space, often with difficulty or effort	The baby had managed to climb out of his crib.	I went to my car, climbed into it and wanted to drive, but nothing happened.
evp	climb	verb	3	B2	to go up, or to go toward the top of something	The plane climbed quickly to a height of 30,000 feet.	
evp	climbing	noun	1	A2	the sport of climbing mountains, hills or rocks	rock/mountain climbing	My hobbies are climbing and jogging.
evp	cling	verb	1	C2	to hold someone or something tightly, especially because you are frightened	She was found clinging to the ledge.	I had clung to my father ever since I was born.
evp	cling	verb	2	C2	to try very hard to keep something	He clung to power for ten more years.	Thankfully, there are those who still cling to such age-old values as personal contentment and growth regarding them as the anchors which hold happiness fast.
evp	clinic	noun	1	B1	a building, often part of a hospital, where people go for medical treatment or advice	a health/medical clinic	Ahmed was traveling to attend a fair of medical equipment to get what he wants for his clinic.
evp	clinical	adjective	1	C1	relating to medical treatment and tests	clinical trials/research	Doctors, for example, travel to get better qualifications, new medical skills and clinical experience.
evp	clinical	adjective	2	C2	only considering facts and not influenced by feelings or emotions	a clinical approach/attitude	Nowadays in Sweden nurseries ("dagis") are common, but in the 1950s they were a new invention."Kindergarten" was the somewhat clinical name. And clinical they were.
evp	clock	noun	1	A1	a piece of equipment that shows you what time it is, usually in a house or on a building and not worn by a person	I could hear the clock ticking.	I want to sell a clock that is ten years old.
evp	clock	noun	2	C1	all day and all night	Rescue teams are working around the clock to search for survivors of the earthquake.	It is undeniable that people are working around the clock in order to earn a living.
evp	close	verb	1	A1	If something closes, it moves so that it is not open, and if you close something, you make it move so that it is not open.	Could you close the door/window please?	It's a phone. It's pink and you can open and close it.
evp	close	verb	2	A2	When a store, restaurant or public place closes, people cannot go into it.	The banks had already closed.	Well you have to be here in my house at 1pm, because the sports center opens at 1:30pm and closes at 4pm.
evp	close	verb	3	B2	If a business or organization closes, or if someone or something closes it, it stops operating.	The factory closed over ten years ago.	In addition, I would like you to know that the Hotel Astrid closed last year.
evp	close	verb	4	C2	to end, or to end something	She closed the meeting with a short speech.	That's how you should close the exhibition: with a question. How much further can Arnold go?
evp	close	verb	5	B2	If a business or organization closes down or someone closes it down, it stops operating.	All the mines in this area were closed down in the 80s.	I must tell you that unfortunately "Hotel Astrid" closed down last year.
evp	close	verb	6	C2	to gradually get nearer to someone, usually in order to attack them or stop them from escaping	Police closed in on the demonstrators.	With the high]wa so close by and all the industrial areas closing in on us, where are we to go?
evp	close	verb	7	C1	to put something across the entrance to a place in order to keep people from entering it	Police quickly closed off the area.	And while it is being built, it will temporarily cause even more problems for traffic, as some streets will be closed off.
evp	close	adjective	1	A1	near in distance, position or time	His house is close to the sea.	It's close to my house.
evp	close	adjective	2	A2	describes people who know each other very well and like each other a lot, or who see and talk to each other a lot	Mira is one of my closest friends.	That night, we had just my family and some of my close friends.
evp	close	adjective	3	B1	A close relative is someone who is directly related to you, for example, your mother, father or brother.	There weren't many people at the funeral - just close family/relatives.	Tomson has a close family, his son lives with them, and his company makes a good profit.
evp	close	adjective	4	B2	seeing or communicating with someone a lot	I'm still in close contact with my school friends.	Being in close touch with me for such a long time, you should have known everything about the band.
evp	close	adjective	5	C1	having only a small difference	The election results were so close they had to vote again.	The over-grazing, the deforestation and the over-cultivation seem to be the main causes of the degradation of the agricultural land, the percentages being quite close in value.
evp	close	adjective	6	C1	to almost achieve or do something	We are close to reaching an agreement.	We were very close to reaching our objective.
evp	close	adjective	7	C1	If someone or something is close to a particular state, they are almost in that state.	She was close to tears.	"Do you love me?" "Of course I do. I've always loved you." Adrian answered. He was close to tears.
evp	close	adjective	8	C2	looking at or listening to someone or something very carefully	On close inspection, you could see that the painting was a fake.	If the parents keep a close watch on their children's activities and friends and advise them what is right or wrong, this will prevent them from indulging in bad activities.
evp	closed	adjective	1	A1	not open	The door was closed.	We arrived home very tired but the door was closed and my parents weren't there.
evp	closed	adjective	2	A1	not open for business	All the stores were closed, so we couldn't buy any food.	He went to the school for his suitcase, but it was closed.
evp	closed	adjective	3	C2	not wanting to accept new ideas, people, customs, etc.	a closed mind	But if we travel with a closed mind, we will be contrasting everything, always having in mind that our things are the best.
evp	closed	adjective	4	C2	privately and not in public	Most of the deals were done behind closed doors.	Decisions which affect the whole world are made behind closed doors and are top secret.
evp	closely	adverb	1	B2	in a way that is directly connected or has a strong relationship	English and German are closely related.	The main reason I am applying for this job is that this job would be very rewarding on a personal level and would give me useful experience closely related to my field of study.
evp	closely	adverb	2	C1	in a way that is very near in distance, time, or position	Elke came into the room, closely followed by her children.	According to statistical figures, Germany is better off as compared to the USA and closely followed by Spain in the management of Government spending.
evp	closely	adverb	3	C1	carefully and paying attention to details	Pollution levels are closely monitored.	I think that working for High Travel as its interpreter would be a great experience if the company decides to look closely at the conditions of its employees and of its travelers.
evp	closeness	noun	1	C1	the state of being close in distance, time, or position	We bought the house because of its closeness to my office.	To resize and relocate the coffee bar and the sauna are excellent ideas - a larger coffee bar provides us with a better relaxing area and the closeness of the sauna to the swimming pool saves us from walking a long way from the pool when we are all wet and cold.
evp	closeness	noun	2	C1	the quality of knowing someone very well and liking them a lot	A special closeness is said to exist between twins.	Fred resented the closeness of the sisters, he wanted Susan for himself.
evp	closet	noun	1	A2	a usually small space with a door for storing clothes or other items	a clothes/linen closet	My bedroom has a walk-in closet, big enough to be a bedroom itself.
evp	closure	noun	1	C2	when a business, organization, etc. stops operating	The bad weather caused many school closures in the area.	I really hope that the closure of the art gallery is temporary and that every proper action will be taken so as to reopen it.
evp	cloth	noun	1	B2	material made from cotton, wool, etc. and used, for example, to make clothes or curtains	a piece of cloth	We will probably be wearing dresses made of synthetic cloth in 2100.
evp	cloth	noun	2	B2	a small piece of material used for cleaning or drying things	a wash/face cloth	
evp	clothing	noun	1	B2	clothes, especially of a particular type	Protective clothing must be worn at all times.	Nowadays the aim in clothing is not just for covering and protecting ourselves.
evp	cloud	noun	1	A2	a white or gray mass in the sky, made of very small drops of water	Do you think those are rain clouds on the horizon?	Except for the first day, the sun was with us all the time, with absolutely no cloud in the sky.
evp	cloud	noun	2	B2	a mass of something such as dust or smoke that looks like a cloud	A huge cloud of smoke from burning oil tanks stretched across the sky.	Some of them leave behind a large cloud of smoke and it damages our health.
evp	cloud	noun	3	C2	to be extremely happy and excited	When I heard I got the job, I was on cloud nine!	But now, after the promise in which both said "yes," she was on cloud nine.
evp	cloud	verb	1	C2	to make someone confused, or make something harder to understand	to cloud someone's judgment/vision	Having their judgment somewhat clouded by hormones should not take precedence over all other concerns.
evp	cloudy	adjective	1	A2	When it is cloudy, there are clouds in the sky.	This morning was lovely but it's really cloudy out there now.	The weather is cold and the sky is always cloudy.
evp	clown	noun	1	A2	a performer who has special clothes and a painted face and makes people laugh	a circus clown	My dad hired a clown and a magician.
evp	club	noun	1	A2	an organization for people who want to take part in a sport or social activity together, or the building they use for this	I've just joined the local golf/squash/tennis club.	I'd like to visit the sports club near your house.
evp	club	noun	2	B1	a team of sports players	the Washington soccer club D.C. United	The club is Juventus and as you know, it is my favorite soccer team.
evp	club	noun	3	B1	a place open late at night where people can dance	After the show, we went to a club.	As regards the food, you can ask for any kind of food and after midnight it turns into a club where you can dance to any kind of music.
evp	clue	noun	1	B2	a sign or some information that helps you to solve a problem or answer a question	Police are searching the area for clues to the murder.	They found it and they started looking for more clues.
evp	clue	noun	2	B2	to be completely unable to guess, understand, or deal with something	I don't have a clue what you're talking about.	I haven't a clue about it.
evp	clumsiness	noun	1	C2	the quality of being clumsy	The accident was caused by her clumsiness.	Then I wanted to skip with her and the girls but my clumsiness made me b]lus and I left the rope and returned to my boys' games.
evp	clumsy	adjective	1	B2	Clumsy people move in a way that is not controlled or careful enough, and often knock over or damage things.	That's the third glass you've broken this week - you're so clumsy!	I was cleaning the house, and as you know, I'm very clumsy, so I was dusting the table, and, accidentally, I dropped the vase.
evp	clutch	verb	1	C2	to hold something tightly	She clutched a coin.	It doesn't matter if you want to be an author, an actress clutching an Oscar or a farmer with a lot of chickens.
evp	clutch	noun	1	C1	the part of a car or truck that you press with your foot when you change gear	I put my foot on the clutch.	I can remember very well when my father explained to me how to release the clutch and to press the accelerator very slowly and carefully: easy to say but...
evp	clutch	noun	2	C2	If you are in someone or something's clutches, they control you, often in an evil way.	Keep your children out of his clutches.	However one must admit that living longer and evading the clutches of death has always been one of man's dreams.
evp	coach	noun	1	B1	someone whose job is to teach people to improve at a sport, skill, or school subject	a tennis/math coach	Then the coach wanted to know some facts about me.
evp	coach	verb	1	B2	to teach someone so they improve at a sport, skill,  or a school subject	She coaches students in French, usually for exams.	I have also been coaching a girls team for 3 years.
evp	coaching	noun	1	B2	additional teaching of a sport, a skill or a school subject	She has extra coaching in math.	In Poland basketball is getting more and more popular and we feel the lack of coaching.
evp	coal	noun	1	C1	a hard, black substance that is dug from under the ground and burned as fuel	a lump of coal	Mining for gold, coal or oil is an option for our economy.
evp	coast	noun	1	B1	the land next to or close to the sea	Rimini is a thriving holiday resort on the east coast of Italy.	I think it's best to spend your time visiting our coast in the North East of Brazil.
evp	coastal	adjective	1	B2	situated on, or relating to the coast	a coastal town	I love to spend time at the beach and that is the reason why I live in a coastal area.
evp	coastline	noun	1	C2	the part of the land along the edge of the sea	a rocky coastline	These buildings, which haven't been looked after and maintained for many years, give the coastline around Land's End an almost ghostlike atmosphere.
evp	coat	noun	1	A1	an outer piece of clothing with sleeves that is worn over other clothes, usually for warmth	a warm winter coat	Dear Mary, I've left my new coat in your house.
evp	coconut	noun	1	B1	a very large nut with a hard, hairy shell, a white part that you eat, and liquid in the center	Thai food uses a lot of coconut.	I forgot to tell you that they have a special dessert with coconut and ice cream.
evp	cod	noun	1	B1	a large sea fish that can be eaten	I think I'll have the cod.	I suggest 'batatas com bacalhau', which is cooked cod served with boiled potatoes.
evp	code	noun	1	B2	a system of words, letters or signs that is used to represent a message in secret form	The message was written in code.	The purpose was to discover secret codes of the enemy thanks to electronic intelligence.
evp	code	noun	2	C1	a set of rules on how to behave or how to do things	a code of conduct	Most of their manners, dress code, personal conduct and their general well-being is taught at school.
evp	coffee	noun	1	A1	a popular hot drink with a strong smell that is made from dark beans, or the beans or crushed beans from which this drink is made	fresh/instant coffee	I don't like drinking coffee.
evp	coffee shop	noun	1	A1	a small restaurant where you can buy drinks and light meals, or a store that sells coffee drinks and snacks	I'm just going to grab a sandwich at the coffee shop.	In my free time I like to go to the Library or to the coffee shop with my friends.
evp	coherence	noun	1	C2	the state of being clear and easy to understand	Her argument lacks any coherence.	
evp	coherence	noun	2	C2	the feeling that you share the beliefs or purpose of others in a group	There is no sense of coherence within the group.	Family gatherings can offer the individual a sense of warmth, of belonging and of coherence.
evp	coherent	adjective	1	C2	A coherent argument, plan, etc. is clear, and each part of it has been carefully considered.	We need to put forward a coherent plan.	In addition to the achievement of high academic status and a coherent identity, young people have to make friends, have love affairs and abide by social rules.
evp	coherent	adjective	2	C2	If someone is coherent, you can understand what they say.	She was so upset, she was barely coherent.	Once she was fairly calm, Anne tried to get a coherent story out of Louise, but Louise simply burst into tears afresh.
evp	coin	noun	1	B1	a small, flat, usually round piece of metal used as money	a 10p/ten pence coin	It was an old coin that my granny gave me three years ago.
evp	coin	verb	1	C2	to be the first person who uses a new word or phrase	The Czech playwright, Capek, coined the word "robot."	S. Czernick coined a term for such type of poetry - authenticism.
evp	coincide	verb	1	C2	to happen at the same time as something else	The band's American tour coincided with the release of their second album.	This moment is of great significance for both characters and it coincides with the event which happens in the house.
evp	coincide	verb	2	C2	When people's opinions or ideas coincide, they are the same.	Luckily, our views coincided.	I have become curious to know more about different cultures, I have learned to respect opinions which may not coincide with mine.
evp	coincidence	noun	1	B2	when two very similar things happen at the same time but there is no reason for it	You chose exactly the same wallpaper as us - what a coincidence!	What a coincidence, don't you think so?
evp	cola	noun	1	A2	a sweet, dark-brown drink with a lot of bubbles	We had a cola with lunch.	I can bring some cola.
evp	cold	adjective	1	A1	having a low temperature	cold weather	I like England because it is cold.
evp	cold	adjective	2	B1	unfriendly or showing no emotion	She became cold and distant with me.	Suddenly, I heard the same, cold voice behind me again.
evp	cold	adjective	3	C2	in a cruel way, without showing any emotion	He shot three policemen in cold blood.	Returning to the story, when I arrived, I went directly to Hillton Avenue where I should have met 005, but when I arrived at the meeting point I found him lying on the floor with two shots in his back; he had been murdered in cold blood.
evp	cold	noun	1	A2	a common illness which makes you sneeze and makes your nose produce liquid	I have/caught a cold.	I heard you caught a cold.
evp	cold	noun	2	B1	cold weather or temperatures	Don't stand out there in the cold - come in!	Because of the cold, some days I had to use gloves.
evp	cold	noun	3	C2	If something makes your blood run cold, it frightens you very much.	I heard a tapping on the window which made my blood run cold.	This thought scared me and made my blood run cold.
evp	coldness	noun	1	C2	the state of having a low temperature	I was distracted by the coldness of my feet.	Firstly, there was an atmosphere of calm and happiness a]round the ground was covered with snow, so that it made your steps quiet and the whole town seemed asleep under its white coat; besides it was so cold that you could actually smell the coldness in the air and it made you feel strong...
evp	coldness	noun	2	C2	when someone is unfriendly or does not show their feelings	I was shocked by his father's coldness.	Contrary to this experience, I had experienced my mother's coldness through the other episode.
evp	collaborate	verb	1	C1	When two or more people collaborate, they work together to create or achieve the same thing.	Didn't you collaborate with him on one of your books?	Even if the staff they collaborated with were quite friendly and cheerful, all of them would prefer the jobs related with computers and new technology.
evp	collaboration	noun	1	C1	when two or more people work together to create or achieve the same thing, or a product of this	The show was a result of collaboration between several museums.	On the other hand, we encourage competition on the basis of team collaboration, to optimize the HR resources in the group, and maximize the individual's potential.
evp	collapse	verb	1	B2	to fall down suddenly because of pressure or having no strength or support	Thousands of buildings collapsed in the earthquake.	Then a sudden wave of fire made their heads explode and many buildings collapsed instantly.
evp	collapse	verb	2	B2	If someone collapses, they fall down, usually because they are ill or weak.	He collapsed and died of a heart attack.	He desperately tried to keep the stalking sharks at bay, but he couldn't succeed, for the long fight exhausted him and he collapsed.
evp	collapse	verb	3	C2	to fail to work or succeed	The peace talks have collapsed.	So, in the long run, the whole social system may collapse due to people's longer life.
evp	collapse	noun	1	B2	the sudden failure of a system, organization, business, etc.	A poor economy has caused the collapse of thousands of small businesses.	After your nervous collapse last year I really worry about you.
evp	collar	noun	1	B1	the part of a shirt, coat, etc. that is usually folded over and goes round your neck	a shirt collar	It's a new, fashionable one with a high collar and short sleeves.
evp	collar	noun	2	B2	a strap made of leather or other strong material which is put around the neck of an animal, especially a dog or cat	a dog collar	
evp	colleague	noun	1	A2	someone who you work with	We're having some colleagues of Ben's over tonight.	I need it for work and so that my colleagues can reach me.
evp	collect	verb	1	A2	to get and keep things of one type such as stamps or coins as a hobby	She collects dolls.	I like to collect dolls, you know that already.
evp	collect	verb	2	B1	to get things from different places and bring them together	Police collected a lot of information during the investigation.	Suzie will collect all the sheets, so I can do them at home.
evp	collect	verb	3	B2	to ask people to give you money for something, for example a charity	I'm collecting on behalf of Oxfam.	And I think it's a perfect way to collect money for our poor people.
evp	collect	verb	4	C2	to get control over your feelings and thoughts	I'll give you a moment to collect your thoughts.	I had [...] about 20 minutes so it would be plenty of time to collect my thoughts and calm down.
evp	collection	noun	1	B1	a group of objects of one type that have been collected by one person or in one place	a private art collection	I'm going to buy the DVD named "Lord of the Rings" because I like it very much and want to have it in my DVD collection.
evp	collection	noun	2	B1	a group of things or people	There's quite a collection of toothbrushes in the bathroom.	I wear long t-shirts and I have a collection of sweaters.
evp	collection	noun	3	B2	when something is taken away from a place	garbage collection	We need a different organization for the waste collection.
evp	collector	noun	1	B2	someone who collects objects because they are interesting or beautiful	a collector of modern art	Anne has been a collector for many years and she knows almost everything about Swedish stamps.
evp	college	noun	1	A2	a place where students study at a high level to get a degree	Where did you go to college?	He was accepted at Brown University, a very prestigious college from the Ivy league.
evp	collocation	noun	1	B2	a word or phrase that sounds natural or correct when it is used with another word or phrase, or the combination formed when two or more words are frequently used together in a way that sounds natural	"Heavy traffic" is a collocation.	
evp	colon	noun	1	B2	a mark (:) used before a list, an example, an explanation, etc.	There's a colon missing in that sentence.	
evp	color	noun	1	A1	red, blue, green, yellow, etc.	She likes to wear bright colors.	I think the best color is light pink.
evp	color	noun	2	C1	with a very high score or with great success	He passed the exam with flying colors.	Thr[o]u[gh] this, he was able to get his college degree and graduated with flying colors.
evp	color	noun	3	C2	interesting or exciting qualities or parts	We'd like to include your story in the magazine this week for a bit of local color.	His brief contact with books gave his life a touch of intellectual color, but made it all the more unbearable when it was taken away.
evp	color	noun	4	C2	the color of a person's skin, when thought of as their race	I don't care what color her friend is.	A group of slaves lead by Spartacus, dared to challenge the Roman empire, an empire that had conquered much of the known world, taking slaves from wherever they were or whatever their color.
evp	color	verb	1	A1	to make something a particular color	He drew a heart and colored it red	Dear Robbie, I want to color my bedroom white.
evp	color	verb	2	C2	to influence something or affect what someone does, says, or feels	The report is colored by the fiscal crises of the last four years.	
evp	colorful	adjective	1	B1	having bright colors	a colorful painting	In my country, people wear colorful clothes when they are getting married.
evp	colorful	adjective	2	B2	interesting and unusual	a colorful character	In my opinion, some flowerpots at the entrance would make this place more colorful.
evp	column	noun	1	B2	one of the blocks of print into which a page of a newspaper, magazine, or dictionary is divided	I didn't have time to read the whole article - just the first column.	To the editor, I am puzzled by the report which appeared on yesterday's page 2, second column, concerning the Westfield Music Festival.
evp	column	noun	2	B2	a tall, solid, usually stone post which is often used to support a roof or as decoration in a building	The roof of the temple was held up by a row of thick stone columns.	There are a lot of columns outside and inside the restaurant, in Doric style]
evp	column	noun	3	C1	any block of numbers or words written one under the other	the left-hand/right-hand column	The last column showed a total of 5523 individuals who lived for 100 or more years.
evp	comb	noun	1	A2	a flat piece of plastic, wood or metal with a thin row of long narrow parts along one side, which you use to arrange your hair and make it neat	Has anyone seen my black comb?	I left my comb in your house.
evp	comb	verb	1	B1	to use a comb to make your hair neat	She combed her hair and put on some lipstick.	I want to buy a mirror for my room because I need to see myself while I'm combing my hair.
evp	combat	noun	1	C2	a fight, especially during a war	The aircraft was shot down in combat.	Gaza is accessible only by car and because of the terrorists setting ambushes against any car, it is very difficult to supply the villages a]roun the combat zone with food and medication.
evp	combat	verb	1	C2	to try to stop something unpleasant or harmful from happening or increasing	new measures to combat the rise in crime	Another way of combating the problem is to create recreational centers in which unemployed people can spend their time.
evp	combination	noun	1	B2	the mixture you get when two or more things are combined	Strawberries and cream - a perfect combination.	This is good combination of exercise and meditation.
evp	combine	verb	1	B2	to become mixed or joined, or to mix or join things together	My wages combined with your savings should just about pay for it.	Boys wear jeans or longer shorts than girls, combined with patterned, cotton shirts.
evp	come	verb	1	A1	to move or travel toward a person who is speaking or the place that they are speaking about	Come here!	I can come to dinner tomorrow at 7 o'clock.
evp	come	verb	2	A1	to go somewhere with the person who is speaking	Come with me.	Can you come with me to my Friend's house to play games tomorrow?
evp	come	verb	3	A1	to arrive somewhere	Has she come yet?	When I came to Dorchester, the town was very pretty.
evp	come	verb	4	A2	to be available to buy in a particular color, size, etc.	Do these slacks come in any other color?	It's the latest digitalized model that comes with a remote control.
evp	come	verb	5	B1	to have or achieve a particular position in a race, competition, list, etc.	She came second in the 100m race.	
evp	come	verb	6	B1	If a dream or hope comes true, it really happens.	I'd always dreamed of owning my own house, but I never thought it would come true.	My dream of going to Spain came true.
evp	come	verb	7	B2	to happen	Spring has come early.	But worse was yet to come!
evp	come	verb	8	B2	to reach a state, or change to a different state	I was sad when the evening came to an end.	That's why I came to the conclusion that the motorbike, together with anti-smog equipment, is the only way to get to work, unless you want to spend hours in a traffic jam.
evp	come	verb	9	C1	to be very easy for someone	Singing came naturally to Louise.	After a while, it came naturally: I could use words I had never seen written, just because I had picked them up in a conversation or watching a video program.
evp	come	verb	10	C1	to be the most important person or thing	Her career always comes first.	They do not take the time to sit down and enjoy being with their family. The work comes first, and the family next.
evp	come	verb	11	C1	If an idea comes to mind, you think of it.	I was thinking about who might be suitable for this job, and your name came to mind.	The main problem that comes to mind concerning transportation within the city is the city road network.
evp	come	verb	12	C1	used to introduce a new idea that you want to say something about	When it comes to baking cakes, she's an expert.	But when it comes to computers, they just impose some knowledge on students, without any interaction.
evp	come	verb	13	C1	used to ask why or how something has happened	How come you didn't go to the party?	Off the record: How come your reporter can print such lies when knowing they are perhaps hurting certain people in this important matter?
evp	come	verb	14	C2	used to say that you have just thought of something	Come to think of it, I've got two batteries that you can have upstairs.	Come to think of it, it really is quite difficult to say.
evp	come	verb	15	C2	to start to do something or to reach a state after a period of time	I have come to rely on acupuncture.	All the things she had been believing in until then had come to mean no]thing as gold turns into coal.
evp	come	verb	16	C2	to become separated or removed from something	The book came apart in my hands.	
evp	come	verb	17	C2	to start to exist	When a volcano erupts underwater, a new island may come into being.	Only with knowledge of the written word were villages able to organize themselves in larger forms of government, leading from local to regional to national levels, and finally leading to transnational structures as they came into being mostly during the last 100 years.
evp	come	verb	18	C2	If information about something bad comes to light, it is learned or discovered.	She knew that the fraud would eventually come to light.	Nevertheless, during the time they are in the forest, it comes to light that Edward is the weaker character.
evp	come	verb	19	C2	to be criticized	The government has come under fire for closing the hospital.	
evp	come	verb	20	C2	to help someone who is in a difficult situation	I forgot my purse but Anna came to the rescue and lent me some money.	
evp	come	verb	21	C2	to deal with something as it happens, without planning for it	With an illness like this you just have to take every day as it comes.	We should, for once, put our jea]lous aside, start to appreciate what we have and take life as it comes.
evp	come	verb	22	C2	to accept a sad situation	He still hasn't come to terms with his brother's death.	She had, at last, come to terms with her loss and although she still, deep in her heart, grieved for Michael she now knew that she could move on.
evp	come	verb	23	C2	to understand and deal with a problem or situation	It's a difficult subject to come to grips with.	As a result, they are daily faced with tight schedules and they have to come to grips with the demanding work they have to prepare for school.
evp	come	verb	24	C2	to be useful at some time in the future	Don't throw those jars away - they might come in handy.	There's a washer and a dryer in the basement. I'm sure they'll come in handy with your new bundle of joy and the rest of your lovely bunch.
evp	come	verb	25	C2	If something comes from the heart it is something you strongly feel or believe	Her speech came from the heart.	It is much more than that, it is something you feel proud of, which comes from the heart.
evp	come	verb	26	C2	to be developing or making progress	Hassan's English is coming along well.	To my delight she is coming along all right.
evp	come	verb	27	C2	to be useful at some time in the future	Don't throw those jars away - they might come in handy.	There's a washer and a dryer in the basement. I'm sure they'll come in handy with your new bundle of joy and the rest of your lovely bunch.
evp	come	verb	28	C2	to happen or start to happen	How did the idea for an arts festival come about?	Speaking of the past and its importance in our present, one cannot fail to observe that the very cumulative experience of a nation erects the foundation for our future. How does that come about?
evp	come	verb	29	C1	to seem to be a particular type of person or thing	He came across as shy.	Tom comes across as a lively as well as a reliable person.
evp	come	verb	30	C2	If an idea or emotion comes across, it is expressed clearly and people understand it.	His bitterness comes across in his poetry.	
evp	come	verb	31	B2	to meet someone or find something by chance	He came across some of his old love letters in his wife's drawer.	Luckily, I've come across an advertisement of a well-known computer trader.
evp	come	verb	32	B1	to go somewhere with someone	We're going to the movies. Do you want to come along?	I'm really expecting you guys to come along.
evp	come	verb	33	B2	to arrive or appear at a place	A taxi never comes along when you need one.	I did not know what to do with it, and that moment my friend John came along. I told him what I had done and he told me that I could trust him with the ticket and that there was no need for me to take it home.
evp	come	verb	34	C2	to start to exist	I gave up mountain climbing when my first child came along.	A few years went past before the second child came along, by this time the family had just moved into a new house, so the mother decided to be a housewife and a kind of "day-mother" for the neighbors' children.
evp	come	verb	35	C2	to change your opinion about something, or agree to an idea or a plan that you were against	I know Maria doesn't like you borrowing her car but she'll soon come around.	Fortunately, my parents finally came a]roun to my way of thinking and I am glad to say they are most supportive.
evp	come	verb	36	C1	to become conscious again after an accident or medical operation	When he came around, he couldn't remember what had happened.	When he came a]round he was lying in a bed, surrounded by smiling women.
evp	come	verb	37	A2	to return to a place	I'll come back and pick you up in half an hour.	I['ll be waiting for your call, when you come back.
evp	come	verb	38	C2	to harm the relationship between two or more people	I won't let anything come between me and my children.	Of course, there was the problem of religion that came between us.
evp	come	verb	39	C2	to get something, especially something that is unusual or difficult to find	Cheap organic food is still difficult to come by.	In the world we live in today, jobs have become much more difficult to come by.
evp	come	verb	40	B2	to drop to the ground or floor	A lot of trees came down in the storm.	Luckily, the curtain came down and the play was postponed.
evp	come	verb	41	B2	If a price or a level comes down, it becomes lower.	House prices have come down recently.	The GDP (Gross Domestic Product) has come down from 0.3% to 0.2%.
evp	come	verb	42	C2	If a situation, problem, decision, etc. comes down to something, then that is the thing that will influence it most.	The success of the venture comes down to the commitment of those involved.	In the end, it all comes down to the question of job satisfaction.
evp	come	verb	43	B2	to become ill	I feel like I'm coming down with a cold.	I must apologize for writing so late, but my sister came down with the flu and I had to visit her.
evp	come	verb	44	A1	to be born, gotten from, or made in a particular place	She comes from Italy.	My friend's name is Niloo. She comes from Iran.
evp	come	verb	45	A2	to enter a room or building	Do you want to come in for a cup of tea?	He asked me if he could come in, and I said yes.
evp	come	verb	46	C2	used to describe how someone is involved in a situation, story, or plan	We need people to help clean up, and that's where you come in.	Another measure is to encourage people to do some forms of exercise and this is where health care practitioners come in.
evp	come	verb	47	C2	If someone comes in for criticism, praise, etc., they are criticized, praised, etc.	He came in for a lot of criticism for his remarks.	The most important part of this process, and one of extremely great importance for the exhibition, is that he had to endure prejudice and often came in for heavy criticism.
evp	come	verb	48	C2	to get money from someone who has died	Just after I finished college, I came into a little money.	Even though one might jump to the conclusion that he probably came into a fortune when his father passed away after setting up a successful business, this is not the case.
evp	come	verb	49	C1	to happen successfully	His attempt to impress us all didn't quite come off.	There were some points in the schedule which frankly speaking didn't come off and the organization failed in some points as well.
evp	come	verb	50	C1	to start to happen or work	The heat comes on at six in the morning.	You can now also do your shopping on the internet, get in contact with your bank and talk to doctors if you feel an illness coming on.
evp	come	verb	51	B1	said to encourage someone to do something, especially to hurry or try harder	Come on or we'll be late!	Come on, help me to find it.
evp	come	verb	52	B1	If a book, record, movie, etc. comes out, it becomes available for people to buy or see.	When does their new album come out?	We're going to see "Blade". It came out just yesterday.
evp	come	verb	53	B1	When the sun, the moon, or a star comes out, it appears in the sky.	It's really warm when the sun comes out.	When we were coming back, the sun came out.
evp	come	verb	54	C2	If dirt or a mark comes out of something, it disappears when you clean it.	Will this red wine stain come out?	At the same time the sparkling, living and red-as-hell blood stain came out.
evp	come	verb	55	B2	If results or information come out, they are given to people.	Information about class placement will come out in August.	The results finally came out at the beginning of October.
evp	come	verb	56	C2	to tell people that you are homosexual	He hasn't come out to his family.	
evp	come	verb	57	C2	If something that you say comes out in a particular way, you say it in that way.	I wanted to tell her that I loved her, but it came out all wrong.	
evp	come	verb	58	C2	to become known	The truth about him will come out in the end.	Murder thrillers are supposed to keep the reader in suspense right up to the last page when the truth unexpectedly comes out.
evp	come	verb	59	C2	If something comes out of a process or event, it is one of the results.	I hope something good can come out of this mess.	So I ended up with something practically unnecessary to me. But something positive came out of it.
evp	come	verb	60	C1	to come to a place, move from one place to another, or move towards someone	Come over here and I'll do your hair for you.	I recently moved to a new house, because my wife came over from Sri Lanka.
evp	come	verb	61	C2	to seem to be a particular type of person	Henry came over as a real enthusiast.	He always comes over as very honest, and even though he is ambitious the way he promotes himself is much more subtle than usually seen.
evp	come	verb	62	C1	If a feeling comes over you, you suddenly experience it.	I don't usually get so angry. I don't know what came over me.	It is sometimes enough just to see a photograph of yourself shot 3 years ago and it comes to your mind, "What on earth came over me?!"
evp	come	verb	63	C2	If information, a result, or a document comes through, you receive it.	Have the results of the tests come through yet?	If the divorce had come through, they would have spent whole weekends together.
evp	come	verb	64	C2	to manage to get to the end of a difficult or dangerous situation	We've had some hard times, but we've come through them.	Those who have managed to come through all these hard years and got the desired medals expect now to be paid back.
evp	come	verb	65	B2	to be a particular total when numbers or amounts are added together	That comes to $50, please.	[If] a bill came to $1000, you would be shocked and regret what you had done.
evp	come	verb	66	B2	to reach a state, or change to a different state	I was sad when the evening came to an end.	That's why I came to the conclusion that the motorbike, together with anti-smog equipment, is the only way to get to work, unless you want to spend hours in a traffic jam.
evp	come	verb	67	C1	to be in a particular part of a book, list, etc.	Hairdressers come under "beauty salons" in the Yellow Pages.	Qui[te] a few, it seems, opted to go for places where they had previously worked. 17% from Education, 5% from Arts and [S]cience and 3% from the Science Stream, come under this category.
evp	come	verb	68	C1	to experience something, often something unpleasant	We came under a lot of pressure to leave the area.	This opinion is true in a sense but it also depends on how kids are brought up and what influences they came under.
evp	come	verb	69	B2	to move toward someone	A young girl came up to me and asked for money.	A tall slim Soc came up and said:- "I will, Daryl old bud." It was James, Daryl's old school friend.
evp	come	verb	70	B2	to be mentioned or talked about in conversation	What points came up at the meeting?	From time to time the discussion about keeping animals in zoos comes up.
evp	come	verb	71	B2	When the sun or moon comes up, it rises.	We watched the sun come up over the ocean.	
evp	come	verb	72	C1	If a job or opportunity comes up, it becomes available.	If some work comes up, you should take it.	I am delighted to help and advise you about the three proposals that have just come up.
evp	come	verb	73	B2	to be happening soon	Final exams are coming up next month.	A holiday is coming up next month so it would be great if you could come sometime between Wednesday 27th to Saturday 30th.
evp	come	verb	74	C1	If a problem or difficult situation comes up, it happens.	Sorry I'm late - a problem came up with my schedule.	I found it very useful that I did not have to write or read, and if a problem came up I just called the qualified teacher.
evp	come	verb	75	C1	If information comes up on a computer screen, it appears there.	The images came up on the screen.	The photo instantly comes up on the screen of the computer and you can enjoy the game with the photo.
evp	come	verb	76	C1	to have to deal with a problem or difficulty	She came up against a lot of sexism in her first engineering job.	It is essential to get along well with your partners, otherwise you may come up against many problems, such as a loss of motivation, or even the risk of being fired.
evp	come	verb	77	B2	to suggest or think of an idea or plan	She's come up with some amazing scheme to double her income.	Together with my teacher we came up with the idea of asking you to come to the college in order to give a talk about your latest book and about the experiences you have had as a novelist.
evp	comeback	noun	1	C2	a successful attempt to become powerful, important, or famous again	She's made a comeback with her first new album in twenty years.	He made a comeback and what a comeback!
evp	comedian	noun	1	B2	someone who entertains people by telling jokes		Then, he went to London to become a comedian and now he is one of the most famous stars in that field.
evp	comedy	noun	1	B1	entertainment such as a film, play, etc. which is funny	His latest film is described as a romantic comedy.	Everybody agreed to see that comedy with Jim Carrey and I know that you would like it.
evp	comfort	noun	1	B2	a pleasant feeling of being relaxed and free from pain	She evidently dresses for comfort.	When the weather is bad, I need the comfort of my car.
evp	comfort	noun	2	C1	something that makes your life easy and pleasant	the comforts of home	Have you ever thought how our grandparents lived in their villages without extra home comforts?
evp	comfort	noun	3	C2	when you have a pleasant life with enough money for everything that you need	He can afford to retire and live in comfort for the rest of his life.	Even when people sympathize with them, they always bear in mind that they are often rich children, who live in comfort.
evp	comfort	noun	4	C2	when you feel better after being worried or sad	What she said brought me great comfort.	If I had been a "bad boy" and received a spanking I would seek comfort in my brothers or sister and they would do the same.
evp	comfort	verb	1	C2	to make someone feel better when they are anxious or sad	The family of the dead are being comforted by friends.	He kept close to Sandra and comforted her, saying this was the only choice they had and that things would be fine.
evp	comfortable	adjective	1	A2	describes furniture,  clothes, etc. that provide a pleasant feeling and that do not give you any pain	a comfortable bed/sofa	You should wear a T-shirt because it's comfortable to paint in]
evp	comfortable	adjective	2	B1	relaxed and free from pain	Are you comfortable perched on that seat?	But when she started the lesson, everybody was comfortable and relaxed.
evp	comfortable	adjective	3	B2	If you are comfortable in a situation, you do not have any worries about it.	I don't feel comfortable about leaving the children here alone.	Those children maybe they don't feel comfortable away from home.
evp	comfortable	adjective	4	C2	having enough money for everything that you need	a comfortable retirement	Certainly, there are part-time jobs, but they are mostly not so well-paid that it would be enough for somebody to lead a comfortable life.
evp	comfortably	adverb	1	B2	in a comfortable way	We slept very comfortably that night.	I was sitting comfortably on the couch watching TV when suddenly all the lights went out, and everything became silent.
evp	comforting	adjective	1	C2	making you feel better when you are anxious or sad	He said a few comforting words.	Furthermore, it is always very comforting to know that someone has the same or even worse problems than we do.
evp	comic	noun	1	A2	a magazine with stories told in pictures	As a boy I used to love reading comics.	My hobbies are playing basketball and reading comics.
evp	comic	adjective	1	B1	funny	a comic actor/performance	I think it's a bit long for a comic film (3 hours!!) but it's very funny] you must see it.
evp	comma	noun	1	B1	a mark (,) used to separate parts of a sentence, or to separate the items in a list	Put a comma before his name.	
evp	command	noun	1	B2	an order to do something, especially one given by a soldier	He hated being in the army because he had to obey commands.	Under the red lights of his command room, the first question that the captain wanted to ask was to know if the boat was safe.
evp	command	noun	2	B2	knowledge of a subject, especially a language	She had a good command of Italian.	Besides, I have a good command of French and I speak English fluently, which might be useful during the voyage around the world.
evp	command	noun	3	C1	an instruction to a computer	It's worth learning the shortcuts for some of these commands.	Program list. 1. System commands MAIN console programs. 2. Review of LINUX Sys. console 3. Server commands. 4. ADD ONs for LINUX OS. 5. LINUX INTERFACE. 6. USER PROFILE.
evp	command	noun	4	C2	control over someone or something and responsibility for them	The soldiers were under the command of a tough sergeant-major.	Suddenly, there comes an insurrection of armed militia with generals in command.
evp	commander	noun	1	C2	an officer who is in charge of a military operation, or an officer of middle rank in the navy	He was a naval commander.	The best part is when the commander forces the troops to kill themselves to prove their loyalty.
evp	commemorate	verb	1	C2	to do something to show you remember an important person or event in the past with respect	a ceremony to commemorate the battle	As requested I am submitting the following proposal in order to recommend Melina Merkouri as a famous person whose achievements should be commemorated.
evp	commence	verb	1	C2	to begin something	Building work will commence in the fall.	Equip[p]ed with their cheap DV cameras, collaborating with young enthusiasts they strive to show what is worrying Poles and manage to commence a national discussion
evp	comment	noun	1	B1	something that you say or write that expresses your opinion	I don't want any comments about my new haircut!	Write me a comment.
evp	comment	noun	2	C2	used to say that you do not want to answer someone's question	"Will you be running for Congress?" "No comment."	
evp	comment	verb	1	B2	to make a comment	My mom always comments on what I'm wearing.	I will only comment on some points, the others may be viewed as agreed upon.
evp	commerce	noun	1	B2	the activities involved in buying and selling things	the world of commerce and industry	In the old days, when the only means of transport were horses, there were many difficulties in communication between people, in commerce, and in life generally.
evp	commercial	noun	1	B1	an advertisement on the radio, on television, etc.	I turn the sound off during the commercials.	I don't watch tv because of the commercials.
evp	commercial	adjective	1	B2	related to buying and selling things	a commercial organization/success	Unfortunately, as long as their private life is interesting for ordinary people and it brings commercial gain to publishers, journalists and photographers, famous people will just have to get used to this living "under a microscope".
evp	commercial	adjective	2	C2	making money from advertising	commercial television	These days, in all commercial television, they show advertisements in every hour of the day.
evp	commit	verb	1	B2	to do something that is considered wrong, or that is illegal	He was sent to prison for a crime that he didn't commit.	She is willing to be a witness for the prosecution and states that her husband was not with her at the time the crime was committed.
evp	commit	verb	2	C2	to make a firm decision that you will do something	He committed himself to helping others.	Doctor Gregorio Alvarez was born in Buenos Aires, Argentina in the early 1910s and graduated as a doctor at an early age. [...] He worked his entire life in the public hospital in Neuquen, which was the most developed city at that time, but he committed himself to exploration on a permanent basis.
evp	commitment	noun	1	B2	when you are willing to give your time and energy to something that you believe in, or a promise or firm decision to do something	She is known primarily for her commitment to human rights.	I really admire your stamina, your commitment and your eagerness to pursue a career as one of the youngest vice presidents ever in the company (and the only female I guess), but is it really worth it?
evp	commitment	noun	2	B2	something that you must do or deal with that takes your time	family/work commitments	Please tell me also the terms of the possible job so I can plan my future work commitments.
evp	committed	adjective	1	C2	loyal and willing to give your time and energy to something that you believe in	a committed marathon runner	All in all, Mr. Schmidt is a very committed and hard-working person.
evp	committee	noun	1	B2	a small group of people chosen to represent a larger organization and either make decisions or collect information for it	She's on the school's development committee.	I'm pleased to help and to present these films to the club committee.
evp	commodity	noun	1	C1	a product that you can buy or sell	The country's most valuable commodities include tin and diamonds.	Not just that, it will have a domino effect on prime commodities as well.
evp	common	adjective	1	B1	happening often or existing in large numbers	It's quite common to see couples who dress alike.	The city is so noisy and it's possible that you will get lost, it's very common.
evp	common	adjective	2	B1	belonging to or shared by two or more people or things	a common goal/interest	I invited her to dinner for all her trouble and we found out that we have a lot of common interests.
evp	common	adjective	3	B2	something that a lot of people know	It's common knowledge that he spent time in jail.	It is common knowledge that such attention in the mass-media] inevitably tells on relationships in the family.
evp	common	noun	1	B1	to share, interests, experiences, or other characteristics with someone or something	Sue and I don't have much in common.	We both like to read fantasy books so we have a lot in common.
evp	commonly	adverb	1	C1	often or usually	These caterpillars are commonly found on bean plants.	For example, fast food and microwave food are commonly eaten by the British.
evp	common sense	noun	1	B1	the natural ability to be practical and to make good decisions	The children shouldn't be in any danger as long as they use their common sense.	In fact she is very nice, funny, and full of common sense.
evp	communicate	verb	1	B1	to share information with others by speaking, writing, moving your body or using other signals	We can now communicate instantly with people on the other side of the world.	Finally, I decided to join a new English class in order to improve my English because a few weeks ago I met someone who is really interesting, so I would like to be able to communicate properly with him.
evp	communicate	verb	2	B2	to be understood by someone when you tell them about your feelings and thoughts	He can't communicate with his parents.	I think I can communicate with children and make them happy.
evp	communication	noun	1	B1	the act of communicating with people	Television is an increasingly important means of communication.	Communication by e-mail is very fast and very cheap.
evp	communicative	adjective	1	B2	open and willing to talk to people	She's never very communicative in the morning.	First of all, I would like to say I am a very communicative person and I enjoy being surrounded by many people.
evp	community	noun	1	B2	the people living in one particular area	a rural/small community	He supported some projects in our community.
evp	community	noun	2	B2	a group of people with the same interests, way of life, nationality, job, etc.	the black/white/Chinese/Jewish community	As a member of our academic community, and a representative of the student's senate, I'm very glad to hear that our college will have a surplus in its annual budget.
evp	commute	verb	1	C1	to regularly travel between work and home	He commutes to Boston every day.	People who work in the city center will have to commute from the suburbs which will be a waste of time for them.
evp	companion	noun	1	B2	someone you spend a lot of time with or go somewhere with	a traveling companion	Jane and her companion felt absolutely foolish and muttered something about a wrong address.
evp	company	noun	1	A2	an organization that sells goods or services in order to make money	He works for a software company/a company that makes software.	Nokia is a famous company as you know.
evp	company	noun	2	B2	when you are with a person or people, or the person or people you are with	I just enjoy his company.	Fortunately a friend of mine came with me for company.
evp	company	noun	3	B2	to stay with someone so that they are not alone	Come and keep me company, Isabel.	Usually I went with him to keep him company and because I liked it.
evp	company	noun	4	C1	to be a pleasant or interesting person to spend time with	Ann and Charles are always good company.	He is a bit narrow-minded and at first he'll drive you crazy, but once you get to know him he'll be good company.
evp	comparable	adjective	1	C1	similar in size, amount, or quality to something else	Our prices are comparable to those in other stores.	Recent surveys revealed that the gap in salary between men and women doing comparable jobs increased within the last years.
evp	comparative	noun	1	A2	the form of an adjective or adverb that expresses a difference in amount, in number, in degree or quality	"Fatter" is the comparative of "fat."	
evp	comparative	adjective	1	C1	comparing similar things	a comparative study of two poems	In a comparative study we see the work force is increasing in Japan, whereas it is declining in U.S.
evp	comparative	adjective	2	C2	a situation which is comfortable/free/silent, etc. when compared to another situation or to what is usual	I enjoyed the comparative calm of his apartment after the busy office.	Uruguay has exploited its comparative advantages orienting its economy towards tourism, whereas Argentina has made use of the river to promote the export of domestic products.
evp	compare	verb	1	B1	to examine the ways in which two people or things are different	If you compare house prices in the two areas, it's surprising how different they are.	Our lives are so different, it's interesting to compare.
evp	compare	verb	2	B2	used when saying how one person or thing is different from another	This street is very busy compared to ours.	To my surprise it was very cheap compared with other restaurants.
evp	compare	verb	3	C1	If two people compare notes, they tell each other what they think about something that they have both done.	We compared notes about our experiences in China.	In conclusion, regular meetings between parents and school teachers [...] help both parties to compare notes, acting in the best interests of the children.
evp	comparison	noun	1	B2	when two or more people or things are compared	They made a comparison of different countries' eating habits.	Nowadays we can see a very different world from the one our grandparents were living in. Whereas they used to talk about how their daily life had changed in comparison with previous generations', we remain astonished at how our lives are changing frenetically.
evp	compatible	adjective	1	C1	compatible equipment can be used together	This keyboard is compatible with all of our computers.	Actually it is compatible with the newest 3DFX technology, which gives an extremely realistic look and the possibility to interact with the game.
evp	compatible	adjective	2	C2	If people are compatible, they like each other and are happy to spend time together.	After they got married, they soon found out that they weren't compatible.	The personalities of my parents were very different but at the same time they were a very compatible couple.
evp	compatible	adjective	3	C2	compatible ideas or situations can exist together	Such policies are not compatible with democratic government.	My aim here is not to criticize this point of view but to show it is hardly compatible with the idea of giving work less importance.
evp	compensate	verb	1	C1	to pay someone money because you are responsible for injuring them or damaging something	Victims of the crash will be compensated for their injuries.	I would like to be compensated for the extra work I have done to please the guests from the last stay.
evp	compensate	verb	2	C2	to reduce the bad effect of something, or make something bad become something good	Nothing will ever compensate for his lost childhood.	Yet, it seems obvious that money cannot compensate for a lack of affection.
evp	compete	verb	1	B1	to take part in a race or competition	She's competing for a spot on next year's Olympic team.	There's gonna be a competition and I want to compete, but you know that my bicycle is a mess and very old.
evp	compete	verb	2	B2	to try to be more successful than someone or something else	It's difficult for a small grocery store to compete against/with the big supermarkets.	She had to compete with twelve other writers.
evp	competence	noun	1	C1	the ability to do something well	Her competence as a teacher is unquestionable.	This report aims to outline the present state of our library's archives as well as to recommend another book or newspaper for those interested in improving their competence in Greek.
evp	competent	adjective	1	C1	able to do something well	a competent teacher/swimmer	As the game develops, the creatures and tasks get more and more complicated and by the end of the game, you will be expected to become a competent shooter.
evp	competition	noun	1	A2	an organized event in which people try to win a prize by being the best, fastest, etc.	a swimming/chess competition	I'm in Australia. I have just seen a surf competition that was very exciting.
evp	competition	noun	2	B2	when someone, or a company, is trying to win something or be more successful than someone else	Competition for jobs is intense.	Different opening times means competition between the shops.
evp	competitive	adjective	1	B2	involving competition	competitive sports	Nowadays people live in a very competitive society.
evp	competitive	adjective	2	B2	wanting very much to win or be more successful than other people	She's very competitive.	I think that I am a very competitive player.
evp	competitive	adjective	3	B2	as good as or better than other prices, services, etc.	They offer high quality merchandise at competitive prices.	I stayed at Riverside Hotel which is great value because of the food and the competitive prices they offer.
evp	competitor	noun	1	B1	a person, team or company that is competing against others	How many competitors took part in the race?	The last one I saw was called 'Spelling' and it was a kind of quiz where the competitors had to spell difficult words fast and finish at a certain time.
evp	compile	verb	1	C1	to collect information and arrange it in a book, report, list, etc.	We're compiling some facts and figures for a documentary on climate change.	The aim of this report is to compile the findings and thereby outline the main reasons why our branch did not get the contract, in order to prevent future failures.
evp	complain	verb	1	B1	to say that something is wrong or that you are annoyed about something	Lots of people have complained about the noise.	If we are bad, they complain to our manager or they tell the head office.
evp	complain	verb	2	B1	to tell other people that something is making you feel ill	She's been complaining of a headache all day.	I asked her if he had complained of any pains or aches?
evp	complaint	noun	1	B1	when someone says that something is wrong or not satisfactory	We've received a complaint from one of our listeners about offensive language.	I hope you give my complaint serious consideration and I would be very pleased if you would print a correction in the next issue of your magazine.
evp	complaint	noun	2	C1	something that makes you complain	My only complaint was the lack of refreshments.	One of their complaints is the absence of variety of options for vegetarians.
evp	complete	verb	1	A2	to provide the last part needed to make something whole	Complete the sentence with one of the adjectives provided.	I will buy episode III as it is the only one that I need to complete my collection.
evp	complete	verb	2	A2	to write all the details asked for on a form or other document	Have you completed your application form yet?	Sometimes we complete the forms and talk.
evp	complete	verb	3	A2	to finish doing or making something	The palace took over twenty years to complete.	I need this paper to complete my grade.
evp	complete	adjective	1	B1	very great or to the largest degree possible	It was a complete waste of time.	It was a complete disaster!
evp	complete	adjective	2	B1	with all the parts	the complete works of Oscar Wilde	I can send you a complete map.
evp	completely	adverb	1	B1	in every way or as much as possible	I completely forgot I'd said I would call him.	In the middle of the journey there was one of those summer rain showers and we got completely wet.
evp	completion	noun	1	C1	when something that you are doing or making is finished	The stadium is due for completion in 2016.	After the completion of the work at the newly-built part of the airport and its opening for service, the formerly quiet part of the town has become a victim of the above mentioned kind of noise, even more than the parts which have had this problem for a long time]
evp	complex	adjective	1	B2	involving a lot of different but connected parts in a way that is difficult to understand	a complex network of roads	It took us two weeks to modify the results in a very complex operation.
evp	complex	noun	1	C1	a group of buildings or rooms that are used for a particular purpose	a sports/housing/apartment complex	A visit to any local shopping complex suggests people between 14 to 35 years of age are the most frequent shoppers.
evp	complex	noun	2	C2	a mental problem which makes someone anxious or frightened about something	an inferiority complex	He began to feel like that character in "Psycho", afraid that the hotel manager would turn out to be some kind of maniac with an Oedipus complex.
evp	complexion	noun	1	C2	the color and appearance of the skin on someone's face	a clear complexion	She had a fair complexion framed with red hair which reminded me of a witch.
evp	complexity	noun	1	C2	when something is complex	a problem of great complexity	Will this system of planting and exploiting new values, styles and icons actually collapse under its own weight and complexity?
evp	complicate	verb	1	C1	to make something more difficult to deal with or understand	These new regulations just complicate matters further.	My friend, I hope I didn't complicate things for you with my appraisal of the situation.
evp	complicated	adjective	1	B1	involving a lot of different parts, in a way that is difficult to understand	complicated instructions	Life is getting easier but more complicated - I could have written a letter in a bottle but waiting for the answer would take a decade, now it's just a click of a button.
evp	complication	noun	1	C1	something which makes a situation more difficult	We want to sign the contract, but there are several complications.	As you have already correctly mentioned in your memorandum, we indeed face some complications in our resort.
evp	complication	noun	2	C2	a new medical problem that develops when you are already ill	Eye problems can be a complication of diabetes.	Disregarding recommendations given by nutrition experts can pose a great threat to our longevity, namely because of cardio-vascular complications.
evp	compliment	noun	1	C2	something that you say or do to show praise or admiration for someone	Thank you for the compliment, but many people helped me along the way.	I take that as a compliment, giving me hope to excel as well as he did.
evp	compliment	noun	2	C2	to tell someone that you admire something about them	He paid her several compliments about her painting.	His companions always pay him compliments on his piano playing.
evp	compliment	noun	3	C2	used by someone to express good wishes when they give you something free, for example in a restaurant	Please accept this champagne with the compliments of the manager.	The guest can also choose from a selection of wonderful desserts such as mousse au chocolat with fresh raspberries before finishing his/her meal with a rose liqueur - with the compliments of the house (and the bill).
evp	compliment	verb	1	C1	to praise or express admiration for someone	He complimented me on my writing.	Firstly, I must compliment you on lowering your prices and adding new destinations to choose from.
evp	complimentary	adjective	1	C2	praising or expressing admiration for someone	a complimentary report	
evp	complimentary	adjective	2	C2	given free, especially by a business	a complimentary glass of wine	It may be easy to obtain complimentary copies from publishers without any cost to the library.
evp	comply	verb	1	C1	to obey an order, rule, or request	The pilot complied with instructions to descend.	To comply with even the highest security standards, WEB-DMS features cutting-edge encryption and access control technologies.
evp	component	noun	1	C1	one of the parts of a machine or piece of equipment	Our company makes components for aircraft engines.	Since both the hardware and software components used by the employees of this department are not in a good state, there is a need of brand new and more powerful computers and of updated software.
evp	component	noun	2	C1	one of the parts or characteristics of something or someone	The course has four distinct components.	These components are present in everyone, whether you are rich or poor, thus it is wrong to be biased with one kind of people purely based on beliefs not supported by solid evidence.
evp	compose	verb	1	B2	to be the parts that something consists of	The committee was composed of elected leaders and citizens.	It is composed of more than 50 members and they have various tastes in film: old and modern, comedy, action and so on.
evp	compose	verb	2	B2	to write a piece of music	Who composed the music for the film?	I've been composing music on a computer for over five years and I have a lot of knowledge when it comes to hardware.
evp	composer	noun	1	B2	someone who writes music	a famous composer	I would like to participate in the planned lectures about the opera composers of the 18th century.
evp	composition	noun	1	B1	a short piece of writing about a particular subject, done by a student	a 500-word composition	I have to do a composition in English to cover the work I missed.
evp	composition	noun	2	B2	a piece of music that someone has written	This concerto is one of her later compositions.	He sang Schubert's "Die Winterreise" although it's already Spring - this composition can be heard in every season.
evp	composition	noun	3	C2	the parts, substances, etc. that something consists of	the composition of the atmosphere	The eating procedure takes approx. 3 hrs, as each course is introduced by a detailed description of its preparation and composition.
evp	composition	noun	4	C2	the way that people or things are arranged in a painting or photograph	The composition of the painting was perfect.	The study of acting, directing, and generally speaking of the scene has always demanded a certain degree of visual composition, a sense of image and of that which is immediately seen (or not seen).
evp	composition	noun	5	C2	the process or skill of writing music	He taught composition at Yale.	He finished music composition at the University in Cracow, and he soon became the professor of composition at the same school of music.
evp	comprehensive	adjective	1	C1	including everything	a comprehensive study of the subject	Presentations on making a career in media, finance and IT could have been more comprehensive.
evp	comprehensively	adverb	1	C1	completely	Sources are comprehensively listed at the back of the book.	However enjoyable and relaxing, driving needs your full attention. Therefore, it should be learned comprehensively and being experienced shouldn't be relied on.
evp	comprise	verb	1	C1	to consist of particular parts or members	The orchestra was comprised of amateur and professional musicians.	It comprises only twelve single and six double bedrooms, which will provide the intimacy we need.
evp	comprise	verb	2	C1	to form part of something, especially a larger group	Women comprise 15% of the police force.	According to a survey carried out in 1997, the urban population comprises 71% of the total population in Pakistan.
evp	compromise	noun	1	B2	when you agree to something which is not exactly what you want	It is hoped that a compromise will be reached in today's talks.	I hope that we'll find a compromise.
evp	compromise	verb	1	B2	to agree to something that is not exactly what you want	In a relationship, both people have to compromise.	The famous stars and the journalists should compromise and respect each other's rights.
evp	compromise	verb	2	C2	to have a harmful effect on something	The trial has been seriously compromised by sensational media coverage.	Sportsmen are usually under an enormous amount of pressure, because the slightest failure could compromise their career.
evp	compulsive	adjective	1	C2	A compulsive habit is something that you do a lot because you want to so much that you cannot control yourself.	a compulsive eating disorder	However, the center has a potential to affect shoppers, rendering them more compulsive.
evp	compulsive	adjective	2	C2	so interesting or exciting that you cannot stop reading, playing, or watching it	This documentary about life in prison makes compulsive viewing.	
evp	compulsory	adjective	1	B2	If something is compulsory, you must do it because of a rule or law.	Wearing seat belts in cars is compulsory by law.	We have asked participants to wear a typical traditional dress/suit from their country - of course, this is not compulsory but everyone is warmly invited to do so.
evp	computer	noun	1	A1	an electronic machine that can store and arrange large amounts of information	We've put all our records on the computer.	There are lots of books and computers.
evp	conceal	verb	1	C2	to hide something	The listening device was concealed in a pen.	She had managed to conceal her dark secret from everybody.
evp	concede	verb	1	C2	to admit that something is true, even though you do not want to	Even the company chairman concedes that the results are disappointing.	As a frequent user of the town library, I had to concede that the article was telling the truth.
evp	concede	verb	2	C2	to allow someone to have something, even though you do not want to	The government will not concede to rebel demands.	"It's wonderful, isn't it, how you always get what you pray for." This quote, Milly's reaction when her father concedes to buying her a horse, is a good illustration of her general attitude towards religion and life.
evp	conceited	adjective	1	C2	too proud of yourself and your actions	I find him very conceited.	This is not to say that the successful person must be smug, conceited or bumptious; but he has to be convinced of his own skills and abilities.
evp	conceive	verb	1	C2	to think of an idea or plan	The original idea for the novel was conceived in Rome.	I wonder what kind of person conceived this terrible and ignorant idea.
evp	conceive	verb	2	C2	to be able to imagine something	I cannot conceive of anything more horrible.	You cannot conceive of any other way of existence than the one you know.
evp	conceive	verb	3	C2	to become pregnant	She had been trying for years, but never managed to conceive.	By then she had everything she could ask for but for some reason she did not conceive for 2 years. [T]hen she conceived but had two miscarriages.
evp	concentrate	verb	1	B1	to think very carefully about something you are doing and nothing else	Come on, concentrate! We haven't got all day to do this.	I can't concentrate on studying.
evp	concentrate	verb	2	C1	to be present in large numbers or amounts in a particular area	Most of the fighting was concentrated in the mountains.	However it might imply a shift from large stores, concentrated in a few areas within or outside the city, to more local services.
evp	concentration	noun	1	B2	the ability to think carefully about something you are doing and nothing else	The noise outside made concentration difficult.	First of all, in my opinion, watching a film is more relaxing, because you don't have to concentrate too much on it. You only have to watch the screen, while books require more concentration.
evp	concentration	noun	2	C2	a large number or amount of something in the same place	high concentrations of minerals	Again, we may need to think about the implementation of more strict regulations related to the concentration of toxic chemicals in exhausts.
evp	concept	noun	1	B2	a principle or idea	the concept of free speech	I had been trying very hard to get the point of the concept.
evp	conception	noun	1	C2	an idea about what something is like or a way of understanding something	They have no conception of how ordinary people live.	Therefore, unless we stretch the conception of personality to cover conformity with practice and social norms, economic decisions, and the choice of identities we aspire to] the clothes that people wear may not reflect their personality, as this can be conditioned by many contingencies.
evp	concern	verb	1	B2	to be important to someone or to involve someone directly	Matters of pollution and the environment concern us all.	Fitness and health are two important issues in life which concern all of us.
evp	concern	verb	2	B2	to be about a particular subject	The next item on the agenda concerns staffing.	Your other question concerns clothes.
evp	concern	verb	3	C1	to worry or upset someone	What really concerns me is her lack of experience.	I read your newspaper announcement and because I am seriously concerned I decided to write you this letter.
evp	concern	noun	1	B2	when you feel worried or nervous about something, or something that makes you feel worried	Concern for the safety of the two missing teenagers is growing.	All those days I put aside all my concerns about my studies.
evp	concern	noun	2	B2	something that is important to you, or when something is important	Our primary concern is safety.	My concern is what present to buy for Mr Brown.
evp	concerned	adjective	1	B2	worried	He's very concerned about her health.	We are getting more and more concerned about our health and how to get and keep fit nowadays.
evp	concerned	adjective	2	B2	used to say what someone's opinion is	As far as I'm concerned, feng shui is just nonsense.	As far as Laura was concerned, he was the most disgusting man in the world.
evp	concerned	adjective	3	B2	used to say what you are talking about	As far as money is concerned, we're doing very well.	First of all, I think the Majestic Hotel would be the right location, but I have doubts as far as the costs are concerned.
evp	concerned	adjective	4	C1	to be about a particular subject	The program was more concerned with politics than the history of the place.	This report is concerned with finding the best accommodation for the three-day trip in north-west England.
evp	concerned	adjective	5	C2	involved in something or affected by it	A letter will be sent out to everyone concerned.	The amount of refund is to be negotiated with everyone concerned separately.
evp	concert	noun	1	A2	a performance of music by one or more musicians or singers	a pop/classical concert	To help with the concert I can sell tickets.
evp	concession	noun	1	C2	something that you agree to do or give to someone in order to end an argument	Both sides will have to make concessions.	Nevertheless, I still have the impression that some concessions have to be made and from personal experience, I can say it is very different to base your choice on a single criterion.
evp	conclude	verb	1	C1	to decide something after studying all the information about it very carefully	The report concluded that the drug was safe.	Taking all these reasons into consideration, it can be concluded that there are many advantages & disadvantages of the decision to ban cars in city centers.
evp	conclude	verb	2	C1	to end something such as a meeting, speech, or piece of writing by doing or saying one last thing	The concert concluded with fireworks.	To conclude, I would like to underline one more time how crucial the setting up of a library would be for our college.
evp	conclusion	noun	1	B1	the opinion you have after considering all the information about something	At first I thought he was being rude, but I've come to/reached the conclusion that he's just shy.	Dear Jack and Ben: I['ve] been thinking about your last letter for quite a long time and I came to the following conclusion.
evp	conclusion	noun	2	B2	used to introduce the last part of a speech or a piece of writing	In conclusion, I would like to thank our guest speaker for her fascinating talk.	In conclusion, music, TV and clothes are very important in a young person's life and can reflect each person's character.
evp	conclusion	noun	3	C2	to guess the facts about a situation without having all of the information	It’s not fair to jump to conclusions based on one incident.	I think, before jumping to conclusions, we should first try to analyse the situation.
evp	conclusion	noun	4	C2	the final part of something	the dramatic conclusion of the movie	When it comes to the crunch, he is patient and persistent enough to carry a project to a successful conclusion.
evp	conclusion	noun	5	C2	to cause you to think that something is probably true	So you thought I was leaving, did you?  What led you to that conclusion?	These results lead us to the conclusion that only people with "minds tough enough" will survive.
evp	conclusive	adjective	1	C2	proving that something is true	conclusive evidence/proof	Although there is no conclusive evidence of the influence of food on people's behavior, we can observe certain patterns of behavior depending on what kind of food people eat.
evp	conclusively	adverb	1	C2	in a way that proves that something is true	It is possible to prove conclusively that he was at home at the time.	This undeniable fact implies advantages that were unthinkable in the past, yet we cannot prove conclusively that the gains outweigh the losses.
evp	concrete	noun	1	B2	a very hard building material made by mixing together cement, sand, small stones and water	reinforced concrete	Some of our children, brought up in modern cities, in a world of concrete, cars, motorways and supermarkets, when asked: "What is a fish?" are only able to answer: "a square piece of white flesh we take from the freezer".
evp	concrete	adjective	1	C1	certain or based on facts	They think she killed her husband, but they have no concrete evidence/proof.	Another piece of concrete evidence to suggest that children from a poorer background cannot cope with social problems properly compared to the other group is the fact that they are more inclined to be the troublemakers themselves.
evp	concrete	adjective	2	C2	existing in a real form that can be seen or felt	concrete achievements/actions	In order to turn it into a feasible concept, this process of learning should be applied to concrete situations.
evp	condemn	verb	1	C2	to say very strongly that you think something is wrong or very bad	The President was quick to condemn the terrorists.	At first these needs were satisfied by different religions, but as we are living in a material world that does not care about spiritual things any more, we created our own idols whom we can look at, judge, admire or condemn - celebrities.
evp	condition	noun	1	B1	the particular state that something or someone is in	My bike's a few years old, but it's in really good condition.	It's very beautiful and in good condition.
evp	condition	noun	2	B1	the physical situation that someone or something is in and affected by	The prisoners were kept in the most appalling conditions.	Althoug[h] I had fun the weather conditions were horrible - it was raining all the time and the road was too wet to ride on.
evp	condition	noun	3	B2	an illness	a medical condition	Besides, all the fats we eat every day plus the accumulated stress of a job, makes us the perfect candidates for a heart condition.
evp	condition	noun	4	B2	only if	I'll come with you on the condition that we're back before midnight.	I would like to do this on condition that you will not mention my name on the website.
evp	condition	noun	5	C1	something that must happen or be agreed before something else can happen	One of the conditions of the contract is that we can't keep pets.	Now I want you to pay for that as it was agreed between us and according to the terms and conditions of the contract.
evp	condition	verb	1	C2	to make a person or animal behave in a particular way by influencing the way they think	The boys were conditioned to be aggressive.	Young people are being subconsciously conditioned to become consumers in every sense of the word.
evp	conduct	verb	1	B2	to organize and perform a particular activity	We are conducting a survey to find out what our customers think of their local bus service.	This is based on a questionnaire conducted in the school and our English department's investigation.
evp	conduct	verb	2	B2	to stand in front of a group of musicians and control their performance	The orchestra was conducted by Charles Miller.	The orchestra conducted by Mr Miller was just superb.
evp	conduct	verb	3	C2	to behave in a particular way	She conducted herself with great dignity.	The qualities I admire most in other people are, first of all, the ability to hide your own feelings - being a little reserved - and at the same time the ability to conduct yourself in such a way so that other people are influenced by you.
evp	conductor	noun	1	B2	someone who stands in front of a group of musicians or singers and controls their performance	a famous conductor	I am fifty five years old and have experience as a conductor of a choir.
evp	conference	noun	1	B1	a large, formal meeting, often lasting a few days, where people discuss their work, politics, subjects they are studying, etc.	a conference on women's rights	As you know, I went to Canada in order to take part in an environmental conference.
evp	confess	verb	1	B2	to admit that you have done something wrong or something that you feel guilty or bad about	She confessed to her husband that she had sold her wedding ring.	I must confess I've put on four kilos in the last three months and the bicycle will help me to become fitter.
evp	confession	noun	1	B2	when you admit that you have done something wrong or illegal	He made a full confession to the police.	I also have a confession to make.
evp	confidence	noun	1	B2	when you are certain of your ability to do things well	He's got the confidence to walk into a room of strangers and immediately start a conversation.	As a result of such a bad appearance he lacks confidence.
evp	confidence	noun	2	C2	trusting someone's ability or believing that something will produce good results	Kate's new to the job, but I've got every confidence in her.	I have every confidence in your ability to reach a compromise.
evp	confidence	noun	3	C2	If you tell something to someone in confidence, you do not want them to tell anyone else.	I'm sorry, she told me that in confidence.	His real name isn't Piggy but he told Ralph in confidence that they called him that in school because of his appearance.
evp	confident	adjective	1	B1	certain about your ability to do things well	Be a bit more confident in yourself!	But I soon felt more confident, as I saw what activities they were doing: some people were playing tennis, others were sunbathing in the garden.
evp	confident	adjective	2	B2	being certain that something will happen	Are you confident that enough people will attend the event?	All in all, I'm confident that a solution will be found and our town will soon regain its former attractive look.
evp	confidential	adjective	1	C1	secret, especially in an official situation	These documents are strictly confidential.	Remember, you are under no obligation to do anything and of course we will treat the confidential information you give us with discretion and respect.
evp	confidently	adverb	1	B2	with confidence or in a confident way	Try to act confidently, even if you feel nervous.	I am quite a hard worker and I can confidently say that I am quite a reliable person.
evp	confine	verb	1	C2	to prevent someone from leaving a place or to prevent something from spreading	He was confined to a prison cell for several days.	Being Portuguese, I was confined to this small rectangle until I was a 15-year-old boy.
evp	confirm	verb	1	B1	to make an arrangement or meeting certain, often by telephone or in writing	Six people have confirmed that they will be attending and ten haven't replied yet.	I just want to confirm that we're going to the ABC cinema tonight.
evp	confirm	verb	2	B2	to say or show that something is true	His wife confirmed that he had left the house that morning.	Besides, it was confirmed by scientists that consumerism may develop in]t a compulsion.
evp	confirmation	noun	1	B2	a statement, often written, that an arrangement or meeting is certain	a letter of confirmation	I look forward to receiving your confirmation.
evp	conflict	noun	1	B2	serious disagreement between people with opposing opinions or principles	There was a lot of conflict between the two parties.	As you know I was in conflict with myself, should I buy a computer or a bicycle?
evp	conflict	noun	2	B2	fighting between two or more groups of people or countries	armed conflict	In these years, Europe was in conflict with China, which meant war.
evp	conflict	noun	3	C2	a situation where someone cannot make fair decisions because they are influenced by something	She resigned from the committee because of a conflict of interest.	It could become a conflict of interest, but he never lets it.
evp	confront	verb	1	C2	to tell someone something, or show them something to try to make them admit they have done something wrong	Confronted with the evidence, she broke down and confessed.	We had bills coming in our door, old ones which weren't paid and whenever I confronted him, he told me he would take care of it.
evp	confront	verb	2	C2	to be in a difficult situation, or to be shown something which may cause difficulties	We are confronted by the possibility of war.	Youngsters are confronted with a lot of difficulties and dangers and are often bound to collapse psychologically from the hard pressure on them.
evp	confront	verb	3	C2	to see that a problem exists and try to deal with it	First, they must confront their feelings of anger.	His inability to confront Ethan's death, as well as his being too methodical, causes his wife Sarah to reconsider their marriage.
evp	confrontation	noun	1	C2	a fight or argument	She witnessed a confrontation between the two men.	There, he finds himself in a direct confrontation with Captain Beatty, the head of the fire station, who represents everything that's evil, as he knows about books but still willingly destroys them.
evp	confuse	verb	1	B2	to make someone unable to think clearly, or to make something difficult to understand	You're confusing him! Tell him slowly and one thing at a time.	When the corpse was found he - successfully - tried to confuse Mrs. Marple, Scotland Yard and the members of the family where he was the doctor.
evp	confuse	verb	2	B2	to think that one person or thing is another person or thing	I think you're confusing me with my sister - we look quite similar.	I had confused the two words, "uvas", which means grapes, and "huevos", which means eggs and said "huevas", which unfortunately means testicles, instead...
evp	confused	adjective	1	B1	unable to think clearly or to understand something	People keep telling me different things and I'm getting very confused.	At first I felt very confused.
evp	confused	adjective	2	B2	not clear	The witnesses gave confused accounts of what happened.	What can a child think] hearing such confused explanations about animals that don't live where they should live, that don't live how they should live.
evp	confusing	adjective	1	B1	difficult to understand	I found the instructions very confusing.	As a secret agent I was prepared for this sort of thing but it was surprising and confusing.
evp	confusion	noun	1	B2	when people do not understand what is happening, what they should do or who someone or something is	There seems to be some confusion about/over who is actually giving the talk.	This caused some confusion because the courses were not completely prepared.
evp	confusion	noun	2	B2	a situation, often with a lot of activity and noise, in which people do not know what to do	In the confusion after the bomb blast, I lost my bag.	In the confusion someone pushed her against the wall and she hurt her shoulder.
evp	confusion	noun	3	B2	a feeling of not being able to think clearly	He could see the confusion on Marion's face.	Then I thought he recognized my confusion; therefore, he opened the box, picking up something from it]
evp	congestion	noun	1	C1	when something is full or blocked	There is always traffic congestion on this highway.	The traffic congestion in Belo Horizonte is an issue that can't be ignored.
evp	congratulate	verb	1	B2	to tell someone that you are happy because they have done something good or something good has happened to them	I was just congratulating Ceri on winning her race.	Needless to say, everybody congratulated her and she spent all evening answering questions such as: "Why did you choose water jumping?" or "Isn't it difficult for a teenager to train five hours a day and to study?"
evp	conjunction	noun	1	B2	a word such as 'and', 'but', 'while' or 'although' that connects words, phrases and clauses in a sentence		
evp	conjunction	noun	2	C2	working, used, or happening with something or someone else	Our librarians use their knowledge in conjunction with the computer network.	Therefore if the banning of private cars takes place in conjunction with development in the public transportation system in that city, this whole development will have more advantages despite some slight difficulties at the start.
evp	connect	verb	1	B1	to join or be joined with something else	Can I connect my printer to your computer?	I want to buy a computer to play games and connect to the Internet as well as listen to music in my free time.
evp	connect	verb	2	C2	to see or show that two or more people or things are involved with each other	There is no evidence to connect him with the crime.	Happiness should not be defined as material access, it should be connected with one of the most basic human needs, love.
evp	connection	noun	1	B1	something that joins things together	Many companies now offer free connection to the Internet.	Moreover, some portable phones have a connection to the web, so it is easy to read newspapers if one hasn't enough money to buy them]
evp	connection	noun	2	B2	when someone or something is involved with or related to someone or something else	The connection between smoking and heart disease is well known.	If you are aware of the connection between food and health you can start changing your eating habits.
evp	connection	noun	3	B2	used to say what something is about	I am writing in connection with the above job advertised in The Daily Press on Monday 12th February.	Dear Mrs Brown, I am writing in connection with a surprise birthday party for your husband, Mr Brown.
evp	connection	noun	4	B2	a train, bus or aircraft that leaves a short time after another arrives, so people can continue their journey	The train was half an hour late and I missed my connection.	Because of bad bus connections it's not easy to get there.
evp	conquer	verb	1	C1	to take control of a country or to defeat people by war	The English were conquered by the Normans in 1066.	However, following imperialistic politics, the Persian King Darios wanted to expand his Kingdom in Europe, so he had to conquer Greece.
evp	conscience	noun	1	C2	the part of you that makes you feel guilty when you have behaved badly	a guilty conscience	Young people have pangs of conscience and are invariably hit by pestering anxiety but they adamantly refuse to admit it.
evp	conscientious	adjective	1	C1	always doing your work with a lot of care	a conscientious student	She is conscientious and hardworking.
evp	consciousness	noun	1	B2	when someone is awake and can think and notice things	He lost consciousness for several minutes.	He lost consciousness and lay there on the floor just in front of me.
evp	consciousness	noun	2	C1	when someone knows about something	There's a growing consciousness about environmental issues among young people.	It also springs up out of a pleasure of playing the game and a consciousness that their health matters and being fit is an important element of it.
evp	consecutive	adjective	1	C2	Consecutive events, numbers, or periods of time come one after the other.	the third consecutive day of rain	Complaints from students have been increasing for the second consecutive year, tape players are repeatedly reported not functioning.
evp	consensus	noun	1	C2	when all the people in a group agree about something	to reach a consensus	In addition, as the general consensus is that young people enjoy communicating through radio programs, I suggest there is a time when messages sent by listeners are read.
evp	consent	noun	1	C1	permission for someone to do something	You can't come without your parents' consent.	The role of the council is to organize things well and to do so with the consent of people living in the city.
evp	consent	verb	1	C2	to agree to do something, or to allow someone to do something	They eventually consented to let us enter.	Fascism is regarded as one of the worst manifestations of human nature, for it was not only a man or even a larger group of men who committed the crimes against mankind that will long remain in our minds, but a whole nation who consented in silence.
evp	consequence	noun	1	B2	the result of a particular action or situation, especially a bad result	The ship sank with disastrous consequences.	My work was the best because I drew a big drawing about the consequences of us not caring for the environment.
evp	consequence	noun	2	C1	used to talk about one thing that is the result of another	A lot of birds died as a consequence of the oil spill.	The influence from Italy is very strong and, as a consequence, pasta with different sauces is common in Slovenia, especially among students.
evp	consequence	noun	3	C1	not important	The money was of little consequence to Tony.	Second, the downpour of rain which was mentioned was in fact nothing more than a small shower, of no significant consequence for the dance display and horse show.
evp	consequently	adverb	1	B2	as a result	I spent most of my money in the first week and consequently had very little to eat by the end of the holiday.	Because of their job or school, people are much more stressed. Consequently, they don't take the time to eat correctly.
evp	conservation	noun	1	B2	the protection of nature	wildlife conservation	I think that trying to save the wildlife in your area is a great aim because you don't have conservation areas and people can easily go hunting without telling anyone and in that way they destroy the wildlife.
evp	conservation	noun	2	C1	when you are careful not to waste energy, water, etc.	Our top priority is conservation of water.	As the issue of energy conservation is becoming more and more important, our company has decided to start doing something about it, as well.
evp	conservative	adjective	1	C1	not trusting sudden changes or new ideas	Older people are often more conservative.	However, some people, especially some youngsters, would say that she's too conservative - I heard lots of people describing her as a 'fuddy-duddy lady'.
evp	conservative	adjective	2	C1	Conservative political ideas emphasize the importance of personal responsibility and preserving traditional cultural and religious values.	Voters in this state are usually more likely to vote for conservative politicians.	He only had to make a marvelous speech on TV to make people realize about the seriousness of the crisis that Europe is going through (and of course Spain) and the importance of keeping the same economic policy and not changing the present government for a more conservative one.
evp	consider	verb	1	B1	to think carefully about something, often before you decide what to do	Have you considered what you'll do if you don't get the job?	I must say thanks to you for your birthday money for me to buy a DVD. After considering what to buy] I decided to buy 'The Legend of Narnias'.
evp	consider	verb	2	B2	to have a particular opinion about someone or something	I don't consider myself to be a great athlete.	I consider myself to be punctual, hard-working, reliable and responsible.
evp	consider	verb	3	C1	to give attention to a particular subject or fact when making a decision or judging something else	You've got to consider the time element when planning the whole project.	The only point we have to consider will be the price of food.
evp	consider	verb	4	C1	to think that something may exist or be true	Have you considered the possibility that he might be lying?	Many students this year refuse even to consider the possibility of going to one.
evp	consider	verb	5	C1	used for saying that something is true in general if you think about all its aspects	The show was a great success, all things considered.	All things considered, it seems like "Kavanagh Catering Services" would be most suitable for the students.
evp	consider	verb	6	C2	to care about or respect other people or their feelings or wishes	She never considers anyone but herself.	Firstly you should always consider other people in your group once you start working together in a group.
evp	considerable	adjective	1	B2	large or important enough to be noticed	It's a considerable sum of money.	I have considerable experience as a worker on a farm, having worked on my father's farm from 1956 to 1986.
evp	considerably	adverb	1	B2	in a way that is large or important enough to be noticed	Rates of pay vary considerably.	The departures are at 8 am. and 10 a.m. daily, but I suggest that your group be there at the time of the first departure because it is considerably less crowded.
evp	considerate	adjective	1	C1	showing concern for other people and their feelings	He is always a kind and considerate host.	As a colleague, I always found him thoughtful and considerate.
evp	consideration	noun	1	B2	when you think about something very carefully	After careful consideration, we decided to offer her the job.	Please give this your careful consideration.
evp	consideration	noun	2	B2	when you think about a particular fact or detail and let it influence your decision	It may be cheap to buy, but you've got to take into consideration the money you'll spend on repairs.	For the reasons I have stated, and taking into consideration that I am an ambitious and sociable person, I think I am suitable for the job.
evp	consideration	noun	3	B2	something that you have to think about when you make decisions or plans	Safety is our main consideration.	The next consideration is the activities.
evp	consideration	noun	4	C2	when you are kind to people or think about their feelings	They always treated me with consideration.	He is very friendly and sympathetic towards those who, like Ralph and the twins, treat him with consideration, accepting him as he is, in spite of his deficiencies as to his manual or hunting abilities.
evp	consistent	adjective	1	C2	always behaving or happening in a similar, usually positive, way	consistent effort/improvement	If you make a consistent effort you will improve your work at a very brisk pace.
evp	consistent	adjective	2	C2	having the same principles as something else, or agreeing with other facts	His account of events is entirely consistent with the video evidence.	An accurate selection of these categories of people should be made by the producers so as to offer to viewers the best possible models in a way which has to be consistent with the program's title.
evp	consistently	adverb	1	C2	in a way that does not change, often a positive way	He has consistently denied the rumors.	It seems that international sports competitions have always tended to attract a great amount of interest on the part of the media and have consistently been popular with sports fans the world over.
evp	consonant	noun	1	B1	one of the speech sounds or letters of the alphabet which is not a vowel		
evp	constant	adjective	1	B2	happening a lot or all the time	He's in constant trouble with the police.	As for me, constant practice in the English language is quite important, it is the essence of my life.
evp	constant	adjective	2	C2	staying at the same level	The temperature remained constant.	Spain had the highest average number of children (2.2) in 1980. [T]his figure took a dip downward to 1.6 in 1985, decreased steadily to 1.2 average number of children in 1995 and remained relatively constant afterwards.
evp	constantly	adverb	1	B2	all the time or often	He's constantly changing his mind.	I stood up and walked around the house, constantly bumping into things!
evp	constitute	verb	1	C1	to be or form something	This defeat constitutes a real setback for their championship hopes.	Women constitute nearly half (48%) of the university students, and in some departments (educational colleges, medicine schools) they are clearly the majority.
evp	constitution	noun	1	C1	the set of laws and principles that a country's government must obey	the US Constitution	This is to be seen as progress, although this development seems to start rather late as already in 1949, the German constitution indicated that men and women have equal rights.
evp	constitution	noun	2	C2	the state of someone's health	a strong/weak constitution	Another obvious feature of his character is his physical constitution: he is rather weak and needs glasses because he is short-sighted.
evp	constitutional	adjective	1	C2	relating to the constitution of a country	a constitutional crisis	Acting likewise, not only will a generation of co-dependent individuals run this country, but also devalue some constitutional principles and even jeopardize democratic institutions already established.
evp	constrain	verb	1	C2	to control something by limiting it	regulations that constrain industry	It must be acknowledged that he is a man constrained by an imposed marriage, which is going to leave him without an heir.
evp	constraint	noun	1	C2	something that limits what you can do	budget/financial constraints	Of course there are different preferences and priorities as well as constraints.
evp	construct	verb	1	B2	to build something from several parts	The building was constructed in 1930.	Using some wood, we constructed small seats and tables.
evp	construction	noun	1	B2	the work of building something, especially houses, offices, bridges, etc.	the construction industry	It is worth mentioning that a huge gym is under construction.
evp	construction	noun	2	B2	something that is built	a large steel construction	It would be a pity to build a modern construction there.
evp	construction	noun	3	B2	The construction of a sentence or phrase is the way the words are arranged.	Pay attention to sentence construction and check word order.	
evp	constructive	adjective	1	C1	helpful or useful	constructive advice/criticism	Moreover, I have quite often asked for the opinion of Mr. Walker on the making of our marketing plan and his comments were always very helpful and constructive.
evp	consult	verb	1	C1	to go to a particular person or book to get information or advice	For more information, consult your travel agent.	Even if I think I know what to write, I usually consult an interpreter and/or a lawyer.
evp	consult	verb	2	C1	to discuss something with someone before you make a decision	Why didn't you consult me about this?	As it is just after Christmas I had to consult my wife - that is why it took some time to write this reply.
evp	consultant	noun	1	B2	someone who advises people on a particular subject	a management/financial consultant	I work in a bank as a consultant.
evp	consultation	noun	1	C2	when you discuss something with someone in order to get their advice or opinion about it	After consultation with his lawyers, he decided to abandon the case.	After full consideration and consultation of the three groups of people mentioned above, we come to the result that charity workers should have the opportunity to present the work they are doing on TV.
evp	consultation	noun	2	C2	a meeting to discuss something or to get advice	a medical consultation	We also plan to employ 2 graduate students from the psychology department in giving free consultations to the children to help them cope with their concerns and worries.
evp	consume	verb	1	B2	to eat or drink something	People generally consume far too much sugar.	People who eat fresh vegetables and meat tend to have good digestion and tend to consume less salt.
evp	consume	verb	2	C1	to use fuel, energy or time, especially in large amounts	Our high living standards cause our present population to consume 25 percent of the world's oil.	It did consume a lot of time, but it was very rewarding.
evp	consume	verb	3	C2	to have so much of a feeling that it affects everything you do	a dancer consumed by ambition	Therefore, we find ourselves unable to enjoy a pleasant meal without being consumed by the deepest guilt.
evp	consumer	noun	1	B2	a person who buys goods or services for their own use	The new telephone rates will affect all consumers including businesses.	Some people might argue that this system is convenient for consumers as they can go shopping whenever they would like to, and it makes the shops more secure against burglary and vandalism since the shops are packed with people inside.
evp	consumption	noun	1	C1	the amount of something that someone uses, eats, or drinks	We need to reduce our energy consumption.	One less obvious aspect of pollution is the surge in energy consumption caused by technological development.
evp	contact	noun	1	A2	someone you know, especially someone who can help you because of their job or position	Julia's mother had contacts who helped her with her career.	All my contacts are in my cell phone and it is very important.
evp	contact	noun	2	B1	communication with someone, especially by speaking or writing to them regularly	Do you still keep in contact with Peter?	Well, we'll be in contact in one week['s time]
evp	contact	noun	3	C1	when two people or things are touching each other	She dislikes any kind of physical contact.	I might even have become afraid of physical contact and of being face to face with others.
evp	contact	noun	4	C2	a small piece of plastic that you put on your eye to make you see more clearly	I wear contacts.	"Thank you," Jason said with delight, "You must know I am almost blind without my contacts."
evp	contact	noun	5	C2	when people look directly at each other, for instance when they are talking to each other	There was very little eye contact between them.	I tried to avoid having eye contact with people just because of this humility.
evp	contact	verb	1	A2	to communicate with someone by telephoning them or sending them a letter, e-mail, etc.	I tried to contact him at his office, but he wasn't in.	Please contact me on 3333333.
evp	contain	verb	1	B1	If one thing contains another, it has it inside it.	a box containing a diamond ring	So he asks the man if that suitcase is his, and the man runs to get it but the security guards don't let him until he shouts: "It contains my daughter's wedding dress!"
evp	contain	verb	2	B2	to have something as a part	Does this drink contain alcohol?	[The] food was not wonderful, but it was healthy and contained a lot of vitamins.
evp	contain	verb	3	C2	to control your emotions	He could barely contain his anger.	Without being able to contain himself and helped by the alcohol in his blood, he shouted and danced and kissed everyone around him, acting in an exceptional way.
evp	container	noun	1	B2	an object such as a box or a bottle that is used for holding something	an airtight container	As a result, a mountain of plastic containers and harmful chemical fluid is ruin]in mother earth.
evp	contemplate	verb	1	C2	to think about something for a long time or in a serious way	I'm contemplating changing my name.	While the popular girl gets very drunk at parties, the other one sits alone in her room, contemplating suicide.
evp	contemporary	adjective	1	B2	existing or happening now	contemporary music/literature/art/fashion	I always read a lot of different magazines and know a lot about contemporary writers.
evp	contempt	noun	1	C2	a strong feeling that you do not respect someone or something	He has utter contempt for anyone with power.	Being a compulsory subject at school, history inevitably arouses contempt, as anything mandatory does]
evp	content	adjective	1	B2	pleased with your situation and not hoping for change or improvement	He seems fairly content with life.	He looked really content and happy.
evp	content	noun	1	B2	the ideas that are contained in a piece of writing, a speech or a film	the content of the article	I suggest explaining the content of the film.
evp	content	noun	2	C2	the amount of a particular substance that something contains	Most soft drinks have a high sugar content.	To sum up, I think to eat what is and has been considered healthy for ages, to focus on variety rather than fat content and to do a lot of exercise is the best option.
evp	contents	noun	1	B1	everything that is contained within something	The contents of his bag spilled all over the floor.	He looked for the owner and gave him the suitcase. He also asked about its contents.
evp	contents	noun	2	B1	the information or ideas that are written in a book, letter, document, etc.	the contents of his will	In the first lesson the teacher explained the rules and the contents of the course, and finally we did a group activity.
evp	contents	noun	3	B2	a list in a book that tells you what different parts the book contains	a table of contents	
evp	contest	noun	1	B1	a competition to do better than other people, usually in which prizes are given	a dance/sports/essay contest	Next week there will be a "Freestyle Battle", a rap contest, where a rapper can mess with others.
evp	contest	noun	2	C2	an election with two or more people running for the same position	This is the city's most important mayoral contest in decades.	
evp	contestant	noun	1	C1	someone who competes in a contest	All the contestants are ready to begin.	The contestants have to sing in front of an audience and the jury.
evp	context	noun	1	B2	all the facts, opinions,  etc. relating to a particular thing or event	This small battle is very important in the context of Scottish history.	It is interesting to see wild animals in their natural surroundings but for a number of reasons this is mostly impossible. In this context, I think a zoo is a good alternative.
evp	context	noun	2	C1	other words that were said or written at the same time as the word or words you are talking about	In this exercise, a word is blanked out and you have to guess what it is by looking at the context.	It's not like studying new words from a textbook as you hear or use the words in real situations and an appropriate context.
evp	continent	noun	1	B1	one of the seven main areas of land on the Earth, such as Africa, Asia, Europe or South America	the North American continent	Brazil is a large country, almost as big as a continent.
evp	continental	adjective	1	C2	relating to or located on a continent	The continental US includes all the states except Hawaii.	To us from continental Europe it comes as a surprise if we see people on the streets with naked shoulders and naked legs at a temperature of 16 degrees celsius!
evp	continual	adjective	1	C1	happening again and again over a long period of time or happening without stopping	I can't work with these continual interruptions.	But, if you are seeking a developed city, Buenos Aires is your answer, as it is considered to be a city in continual improvement.
evp	continually	adverb	1	C1	again and again or without stopping	Dad continually complains about money.	First of all I would like to mention that new blood is required in the club, as the membership is continually falling.
evp	continue	verb	1	B1	to keep happening, existing or doing something	It continued to snow heavily for two days.	I thought that he wasn't calling me, so I continued walking to the car.
evp	continue	verb	2	B1	to start doing or saying something again, after stopping for a short period	We'll have to continue this discussion tomorrow.	We continued our journey early in the morning.
evp	continuity	noun	1	C2	the state of continuing for a long period of time without being changed or stopped	We are trying to provide continuity of care for these children.	It is the young who demonstrate that there is a sense of continuity in a family, and that was what I was looking for.
evp	continuous	adjective	1	B2	being the form of a verb used to show that an action is continuing to happen	the present/past continuous	The lesson was about the present continuous form.
evp	continuous	adjective	2	B2	happening or existing without stopping	continuous pain	Since the development of nuclear weapons, the Earth's fate has been in continuous danger.
evp	continuously	adverb	1	B2	without stopping	You can't work continuously for six hours without a break!	They continuously claim that the destruction of the environment is totally all human beings' responsibility.
evp	contraception	noun	1	C2	methods that prevent a woman from becoming pregnant	What form of contraception do you use?	Should the Church have taken a more pro-active role in educating its followers on matters related to health care such as contraception, pregnancy and basic self care - perhaps we would not see such appalling numbers of i]mpoverishe large families living in s]hant towns.
evp	contraceptive	noun	1	C2	a drug or object that prevents a woman from becoming pregnant	They were not using contraceptives.	The lack of contraceptives in her village (due to the religious pressure) in addition to the poor availability of information result in Maria's almost inevitable pregnancy.
evp	contract	noun	1	B1	a legal agreement between two people, two organizations or a person and an organization	an employment/construction/service contract	He went to the 1994 World Cup in the USA and Brazil's victory helped him to sign a contract to play in Holland.
evp	contract	verb	1	C2	to make a legal agreement with someone to do work or to have work done for you	He's been contracted to perform in five shows.	We have contracted a famous lawyer who is ready to take the case to court if our demands are not met by the end of the year.
evp	contract	verb	2	C2	to get a serious disease	She contracted malaria while living abroad.	We should be proud of ourselves that we are in a position to help and cure people who have contracted very complex diseases.
evp	contradict	verb	1	C1	to say that what someone has just said is wrong	Nobody dared to contradict her.	Jane: Be patient with her, she is a lovely lady, although she doesn't like people to contradict her.
evp	contradict	verb	2	C2	If two things that are said or written about something contradict each other, they are so different that they cannot both be true.	His account of the accident contradicts the official government report.	Although I strongly agree with you that people should enjoy their food I also think that you contradict yourself within your last statement.
evp	contradiction	noun	1	C2	a big difference between two things that are said or written about the same subject, or between what someone says and what they do	There is a clear contradiction between what she says and what she does.	More often than not, however, such events will also give rise to all sorts of contradictions.
evp	contradictory	adjective	1	C2	If two statements about the same subject or two actions by the same person are contradictory, they are very different.	The witness statements were contradictory.	So parents need to be good role models and not behave in a contradictory way to what is being taught at school.
evp	contrast	noun	1	B2	an obvious difference between two or more things	The contrast between their lifestyles couldn't be greater.	The contrast between the wild mountains and the crowded but charming beach on the ocean shore would have pleased you.
evp	contrast	noun	2	B2	used to show that someone or something is completely different	Their economy has expanded enormously, while ours, by contrast, has declined.	TV, by contrast, is a more passive activity.
evp	contrast	verb	1	C2	If one thing contrasts with another, it is very different from it.	The sharpness of the lemons contrasts with the sweetness of the honey.	Her pale expression contrasted with her long, dark hair that hung down beyond her shoulders.
evp	contrast	verb	2	C2	to compare two people or things in order to show the differences between them	If you contrast his early novels with his later work, you can see how his writing has developed.	Ruth Jhabvala's "Heat and Dust" describes the growing attraction of two British women to India in two parallel stories skilfully interwoven to contrast two periods of time fifty years apart.
evp	contribute	verb	1	B2	to give something, especially money, in order to provide or achieve something together with other people	Her family contributed $50,000 to the fund.	Furthermore, it is unfair to judge other performers as second-rate, as they did their best to contribute.
evp	contribute	verb	2	C1	to write articles for a newspaper, magazine, or book	She contributes to several magazines.	After a lot of thinking and discussing with our members and with people who would like to contribute to our magazine, I decided to suggest our well thought[-out] ideas.
evp	contribution	noun	1	B2	something that you do or give to help produce or achieve something, or to help make something successful	This invention made a major contribution to road safety.	I am willing to make a significant contribution to the club.
evp	control	verb	1	B1	to make someone or something do what you want	If you can't control your dog, put it on a leash!	The movie was about a ring which was found in the river and used to control the world.
evp	control	verb	2	B1	to stop yourself expressing strong emotions or behaving in a silly way	You're going to have to learn to control your temper.	I tried to control myself and started to speak politely and in a friendly way.
evp	control	verb	3	B2	to limit the number, amount or increase of something	Fire fighters struggled to control the blaze.	We have to control the number of cars, we can't allow as many cars as we drive now]
evp	control	verb	4	B2	to rule or govern an area	The whole area is controlled by rebel forces.	BRAVE NEW WORLD The part of the book I have read and I remember best is when John, the savage, comes into the New World [State] controlled by several World Controllers from the savage reservation.
evp	control	noun	1	B2	when you make someone or something do what you want, or the power to do this	She doesn't have any control over that child.	Ap[p]arently he lost control of the wheel, so the car crashed into a tree.
evp	control	noun	2	B2	If something or someone is beyond control or out of control, you cannot influence, limit or direct them.	The car skidded and went out of control, crashing into an oncoming truck.	I had just driven through Piazza Duomo, when another car came a]roun a corner much too fast, skidded, and went out of control.
evp	control	noun	3	B2	being dealt with successfully	Don't worry - everything's under control.	"Everything is under control," said the captain.
evp	control	noun	4	B2	a switch or other device used to operate a machine, such as a vehicle	Where's the volume control on your stereo?	He touched a switch on the control panel and heard that characteristic hiss.
evp	control	noun	5	B2	to start to rule or govern an area	The dictator took control of the country in 1933.	In the first part of the story animals take control of a farm in England.
evp	control	noun	6	B2	a rule or law that limits something	gun/weapons control	[It is important to find a way to regulate the information shown o] the internet, because right now there is no control over the information.
evp	control	noun	7	C1	the ability to be calm	It took a lot of control to stop myself hitting him.	If you think you are doing something wrong during your test you shouldn't start panicking and losing your control.
evp	controversial	adjective	1	B2	causing disagreement or discussion	a controversial issue/decision/speech/figure	From my point of view it is a very controversial issue.
evp	controversy	noun	1	C1	a lot of disagreement and argument about something	There is a lot of controversy over/about cell phone towers.	Traveling abroad to work has been a matter of controversy.
evp	convenience	noun	1	B2	the quality of being convenient	the convenience of credit cards	I think the first reason is its convenience. [...] Just by sitting in front of it, you can enjoy TV programs.
evp	convenience	noun	2	B2	at a time that is convenient to you	We can meet at your convenience.	I look forward to hearing from you at your earliest convenience.
evp	convenience	noun	3	C1	something that makes life easier	Fortunately, the house has every modern convenience.	Thus, we have many facilities and conveniences in comparison with the past.
evp	convenient	adjective	1	B1	easy to use or suiting your plans well	We could meet at either place - whichever is more convenient for you.	If it would be possible for you, I can attend another class at any time which is convenient for you.
evp	convenient	adjective	2	B1	near or easy to get to	My new house is more convenient to the station.	It is near the train station so it is very convenient to get there.
evp	conveniently	adverb	1	B2	in a way that is convenient	The house is conveniently situated near the station and shopping.	Both places are conveniently situated.
evp	convention	noun	1	C1	a large formal meeting of people who do a particular job or have a similar interest, or a large meeting for a political party	the national Democratic convention	Conference facilities: Being completely renovated, the historic building of Edessa's Cultural Association is the ideal place for a modern scientific convention.
evp	convention	noun	2	C1	a usual and accepted way of behaving or doing something	In many countries it is the convention to wear black at funerals.	Nowadays, people tend to avoid traditions and conventions.
evp	conventional	adjective	1	B2	traditional and ordinary	conventional behavior/attitudes/clothes	One is a very exotic place, the other one is a conventional one.
evp	conventional	adjective	2	C1	what most people believe	These ideas about childcare go against conventional wisdom on the subject.	Thus, against conventional wisdom, I think that while a lot of adult problems are caused by money or the lack of it, it is really the ability to deal with money and to see money as a means rather than an end.
evp	conversation	noun	1	A1	a talk between two or more people, usually an informal one	a conversation about football.	But every day we have a spelling test and a conversation with our teacher or in pairs.
evp	conversation	noun	2	C1	to have a conversation	I can just about hold a conversation in Italian.	I know the grammar and many different expressions, and I can hold a conversation with other people.
evp	conversion	noun	1	C2	when the appearance, form, or purpose of something is changed	the country's conversion to democracy	This 'magic' conversion of energy can be performed in several ways, which result in different degrees of 'dignity' or 'cleanness' for the resulting electrons, freely running through our cables.
evp	convert	verb	1	B2	to change the appearance, form, or purpose of something	Could we convert the small bedroom into a second bathroom?	Even some medieval castles have been converted into museums.
evp	convert	verb	2	C2	to change to a new religion, belief, etc., or to make someone do this	When did he convert to Islam?	Frederica converted to Catholicism and devoted her life to mentally ill children.
evp	convey	verb	1	C1	to communicate information, feelings, or images to someone	She always conveys a sense of enthusiasm for her work.	Being an Ambassador for Youth bears lot of responsibility, not only because the person must be an outstanding character and widely well-known, but also because they must behave accordingly and be able to convey a positive message.
evp	convict	verb	1	C2	to decide officially in a court of law that someone is guilty of a particular crime	He was convicted of murder.	Consequently he was convicted of robbery and murder and was sentenced to 20 years in prison.
evp	conviction	noun	1	C2	when someone is officially found to be guilty of a particular crime	He already had two convictions for burglary.	Besides, she had no previous convictions so nobody believed that such a pretty, intelligent and polite woman could do any harm to anybody.
evp	conviction	noun	2	C2	a strong opinion or belief	religious/moral convictions	In spite of the fact that I respect their convictions, I totally disagree with this viewpoint.
evp	convince	verb	1	B1	to persuade someone or make them certain	She tried to convince me that I needed a new car.	She was the one who convinced me to go, and I am glad she did.
evp	convinced	adjective	1	B2	certain	My boyfriend says I'd enjoy a hiking vacation, but I'm not convinced.	I'm convinced that I would benefit from this experience in the future.
evp	convincing	adjective	1	C1	able to make you believe that something is true or right	a convincing argument/explanation	The school didn't give us a real and convincing explanation for this.
evp	cook	verb	1	A1	to prepare food and usually heat it	I don't cook meat very often.	I would like you to cook Camerounian traditional foods (Ndole, Pistache, Couscous, Khaki).
evp	cook	noun	1	A2	someone who prepares and cooks food	She's a wonderful cook.	For example my mother wakes up at 4am. She is a cook like me.
evp	cookie	noun	1	A2	a small, flat cake that is dry and usually sweet	chocolate-chip cookies	First, we ate the cookies my mother had baked.
evp	cookie	noun	2	C2	a piece of information stored on your computer which contains information about an Internet site you have looked at	You need to enable cookies to use this Web site.	
evp	cooking	noun	1	A2	preparing and cooking food, or a particular way of preparing and cooking food	My mother always hated cooking.	I really like it because I love cooking and also baking.
evp	cool	adjective	1	A2	good, stylish, or fashionable	It was a really cool gig.	I got this mega cool T-shirt.
evp	cool	adjective	2	B1	slightly cold, but not too cold	cool water	Sometimes a cool wind blows in Bodrum].
evp	cool	adjective	3	C1	calm and not emotional	She seemed cool and confident.	I remember saying to myself that "this little boy will survive" and after that I felt totally cool and calm and did what had to be done.
evp	cool	adjective	4	C2	unfriendly	She was very cool towards us.	I encouraged him to tell me what was going on and I could hardly believe it when he explained the reason why he had been treating me in a cool manner.
evp	cool	adjective	5	C2	to remain calm in a difficult situation	To be successful in business, you need to keep a cool head in negotiations.	Kevin managed to keep a cool head and took over the navigation.
evp	cool	verb	1	B2	to become less hot, or to make something become less hot	Allow the bread to cool before slicing it.	In the summer many people were delighted by fountains which cooled the air.
evp	cool	verb	2	B2	to become less hot, or to make someone or something become less hot	She waited until her coffee had cooled down and then took a sip.	The pool is a very popular place to cool down in]
evp	cool	verb	3	B2	to become calmer, or to make someone become calmer	Just leave her to cool off and then talk to her.	It seemed to me that you were stressed. If I were you, I would cool down a little.
evp	cool	noun	1	C1	to remain calm	You did well to keep your cool in all that panic.	Whatever the problem is, keep your cool, don't panic.
evp	cool	noun	2	C2	to suddenly become very angry	She lost her cool and started shouting.	
evp	coolness	noun	1	C1	the quality of being cold	the coolness of the breeze	The coolness of the bus made me ill.
evp	coolness	noun	2	C2	the quality of being calm	He was admired for his coolness under pressure.	Finally, a successful person should have their own style and opinion to distinguish from other people, enough patience to wait for important opportunities, a certain coolness to "survive" critical situations, and last but not least, a good deal of luck, which often decides whether you are successful or not.
evp	coolness	noun	3	C2	the quality of being unfriendly	He was a little insulted by her coolness towards him.	James eyed her with a mixture of contempt and admiration for her coolness.
evp	cooperate	verb	1	B2	to work together with someone in order to achieve the same aim	The Spanish authorities cooperated with the British police in finding the terrorists.	Lime has become a sort of monster, with no consideration for life any more, and Martins decides to cooperate with the police to catch and kill him.
evp	cooperate	verb	2	B2	to help someone or do what they ask	I find it very hard to dress my two-year-old when she refuses to cooperate.	He tried to get on to his feet but his head refused to cooperate so he decided to sit where he was for the time being.
evp	cooperation	noun	1	B2	when you work together with someone or do what they ask you	This documentary was made with the cooperation of the transportation authority.	Thank you in advance for your cooperation in this respect.
evp	cooperative	adjective	1	B2	willing to help or do what people ask	I found them very cooperative.	You can rely on me - I love children and I am energetic and cooperative.
evp	cope	verb	1	B2	to deal successfully with a difficult situation	How does she cope with three small children and a job?	Moreover she can't cope with life.
evp	copper	noun	1	B2	a reddish-brown metal used especially for making wire and coins, or the reddish brown color of this metal	copper wire/pipes	Its domes are made of pure copper, inside there's a big bell called "Zygmunt".
evp	copy	verb	1	A2	to produce something that is similar or exactly the same as something else	They've copied the basic design from the Japanese model and added a few of their own refinements.	I will copy the CD onto my computer.
evp	copy	verb	2	B2	to cheat by looking at and using someone else's work	He was always copying from/off other children, but never got caught.	I'm certain she thought we had copied in the test.
evp	copy	verb	3	B2	to behave like someone else	He tends to copy his brother in the way he dresses.	He has to eat salads now, in the hope that the kids'll copy his attitudes and eat fresh and healthy food instead of sweets and unhealthy stuff.
evp	copy	noun	1	B1	something that has been made to be exactly like something else	This painting is only a copy - the original hangs in the Louvre.	For covering the work I missed, I will ask May on Thursday if I can borrow her exercise book and make a copy.
evp	copy	noun	2	B2	a single book, newspaper, etc. of which many have been produced	Over a million copies of the book have been sold.	The single with her new song sold more than 15 million copies, now she was a powerful star.
evp	coral	noun	1	C2	a hard, usually pink or white substance produced by a type of very small sea animal	a coral reef	The main attraction of the place is scuba diving, due to the excellent visibility of the water and the impressive coral reefs which surround the island.
evp	core	noun	1	C2	the most important part of a system or principle	core values	The aim of this paper is to respond to a call for proposals from a TV company which is planning to launch a program called "Making the World a Better Place" and to select the group of people which represents the core idea of this program.
evp	core	noun	2	C2	the hard, central part of certain fruits, such as apples, which contains the seeds	Peel the apples and remove the cores.	So there it was, hidden in nature, occasionally trampled by a stray dog with no other companion than old cans and apple cores.
evp	corn	noun	1	B1	a tall plant with yellow seeds that are eaten as food	a corn field	You k]no she is a farmer and we have to plant yams, corn, beans and other crops.
evp	corner	noun	1	A2	the point, area or line which is formed by the meeting of two lines, surfaces, roads, etc.	Click the icon in the bottom right-hand corner of the screen.	It's at the corner of East Street and Beach Street.
evp	corner	noun	2	C2	a difficult situation	She had been in a tight corner before and had always managed to cope.	It is a great pressure, requiring a lot of effort and sense of humor but does work in most cases, helping to find the best way out of a tight corner.
evp	corporate	adjective	1	C1	relating to a large company or group	corporate finance	This proposal highlights advisable amendments to the ABC Company's management structure, namely the marketing department, in view of unforeseen corporate losses.
evp	corporation	noun	1	B2	a large company or group of companies that is controlled together as a single organization	a multinational corporation	Since I was a child, I've always dreamed about being a car designer in a large and powerful corporation like Ferrari, Porsche, Mercedes-Benz, etc. (576235; First Certificate in English; Chile; B2 VANTAGE; 1993; Spanish; Spanish; Fail)
evp	corpse	noun	1	C2	a dead person's body	There were several corpses in the building.	Evian and I just stood there and gazed at the corpse for a few hours.
evp	correct	adjective	1	A2	accurate, or having no mistakes	a correct answer	I must learn more from English people so that I hear correct English.
evp	correct	adjective	2	B1	suitable for a particular situation	correct behavior	I think that is the correct option because I really like this kind of film!
evp	correct	verb	1	B2	to show someone the mistakes in something they have said or written	Our teacher normally corrects our pronunciation.	Until now, I have never had someone really teaching me and correcting my mistakes.
evp	correct	verb	2	B2	to make a mistake or problem right or better	The new software finds and corrects any errors on the hard disk.	For example if I have to write a formal letter or something like this, I use my PC because the paper looks nicer and the computer corrects my mistakes.
evp	correction	noun	1	B1	a change made to something in order to correct or improve it, or when you make such a change	I made some corrections before handing in my essay.	My new teacher is friendlier and he is more careful with his correction of the work and exams we do.
evp	correctly	adverb	1	B1	in a correct way	Have I pronounced your name correctly?	I don't speak English correctly.
evp	correspond	verb	1	B2	to be the same or very similar	The money I've saved corresponds roughly to the amount I need for my course.	Therefore, I would like to ask you for my entrance fee, as this evening did not correspond to your advertisement.
evp	correspond	verb	2	B2	to communicate with someone by writing letters	They had corresponded ever since the war.	Dear Tom It would be wonderful to see you because we've been corresponding for a long time but I've never had the pleasure of meeting you.
evp	corresponding	adjective	1	C2	similar or related	Draw a line between the words with corresponding meanings.	In terms of the consequences for society as a whole, an increase in life expectancy might pose problems if the percentage of old people increases without being accompanied by a corresponding increase in the birth rate.
evp	corridor	noun	1	B2	a long passage in a building or train	Her office is at the end of the corridor.	The invigilator left the room and walked down the corridor looking for some help.
evp	corrupt	adjective	1	C1	dishonest or illegal	a corrupt government	I am not saying he is corrupt - I don't believe that - but he commands many corrupt people.
evp	corrupt	verb	1	C1	to make someone or something become dishonest or immoral	He became corrupted by power and money.	Maybe wealth can corrupt people's minds and make people weak.
evp	corruption	noun	1	C1	dishonest or immoral behavior, usually by people in positions of power	He was arrested for corruption and bribery.	I think that both have lost respect because of corruption.
evp	corruption	noun	2	C1	when you cause someone or something to become dishonest or immoral	the corruption of innocent young children	The contrast between those two groups was getting bigger and bigger and it ended up in a destructive war, destructive doesn't refer only to deaths and city damage but also to the corruption of morals.
evp	cosmopolitan	adjective	1	C1	consisting of people and things from many different countries	London is a very cosmopolitan city.	I chose London because it's a cosmopolitan city, and very near to the other European countries.
evp	cost	noun	1	A2	the amount of money that you need to buy or do something	The cost of building materials has risen.	The country is still the same, the cost of living is still high.
evp	cost	noun	2	B2	something that you give or lose, in order to get or achieve something else	He rescued four people at the cost of his own life.	We wanted to travel by car and, to my cost, my friend began to drive the car.
evp	cost	noun	3	B2	If something must be done at all costs, it is very important that it is done.	We have to succeed at all costs.	One thing was sure: he was convinced he had to save Anne's life at all costs.
evp	cost	verb	1	A2	If something costs an amount of money, you must pay that amount to buy or do it.	How much did your bike cost?	How much does it cost?
evp	cost	verb	2	B2	to cause someone to lose or destroy something valuable	Drinking and driving costs lives.	However, many people are talking about car accidents which cost human lives.
evp	costume	noun	1	B2	a set of clothes worn in order to look like someone else, especially for a party or a film or play	actors in costume	Everything becomes alive with music and dancing, and everybody wears amazing costumes.
evp	costume	noun	2	B2	the set of clothes typical of a particular country or period of history	Japanese national costume	You also can take some terrific ph]otograph of national costumes, hear music and take part in dances.
evp	cottage	noun	1	B1	a small house, usually in the countryside	They live in a country cottage, with roses around the door.	I live in a typical Norwegian cottage with a huge fireplace, and everything is natural and simple.
evp	cotton	noun	1	B1	cloth or thread made from the fibers of the cotton plant	a shirt made of pure cotton	Normally, I would prefer my blouses to be made of cotton or silk as these materials make me feel comfortable.
evp	cough	verb	1	B1	to force air out of your lungs through your throat with a short loud sound	The smoke made me cough.	I kept coughing, my nose kept running!
evp	cough	noun	1	B1	when you cough or an illness that makes you cough	a dry cough	Because of swimming so much I got a terrible cough and so I had to be sent back to school so that I could be treated properly.
evp	council	noun	1	B2	the group of people elected to govern a particular area, town or city, and organize services for it	the New York City Council	First of all, we all know that all this can't be done by our city council without our support.
evp	counsel	noun	1	C2	one or more of the lawyers taking part in a case or legally representing a person or organization	counsel for the corporation	As counsel for the prosecution insisted on severe punishment; John was sent to serve his sentence in one of the worst jails in the country.
evp	counseling	noun	1	C2	the job or process of listening to people and giving them advice about their problems	a counseling service	Due to this fact we were always tired and annoyed and our children were not able to concentrate on their homework, they were nervous, noisy, and hyperactive and finally they had to go to a psychiatrist for counseling.
evp	counselor	noun	1	C2	someone whose job is to give people advice and help	a marriage/guidance counselor	A year ago my mother found an advertisement in a newspaper: some American directors of a summer camp were looking for i]nexperience but willing to work counselors.
evp	count	verb	1	B1	to see how many people or things there are	The teachers counted the students as they got on the bus.	I counted them and there were 5 suitcases.
evp	count	verb	2	B1	to say numbers in their correct order	Can you count to ten in French?	What he told me is "If you have any wishes, count 1 to 100 every Sunday for one month".
evp	count	verb	3	B2	to be important	I've always believed that happiness counts more than money.	It wasn't romantic, there were no flowers but Carla knew that what counts is in the heart.
evp	count	verb	4	C2	to think of someone or something in a particular way	She counted Tim as her closest friend.	In a way, I think I should count myself very lucky.
evp	count	verb	5	C2	to be accepted or allowed as part of something	I've been to sixteen different countries, but I only spent half an hour in Luxembourg, so that doesn't really count.	
evp	count	verb	6	C2	to include something or someone in a calculation	There are 1500 people at my school, counting teachers.	It was not until I married Paul that I began to receive a bunch of telephone calls from my closest relatives, not counting my mother because she had already become a part of our house.
evp	count	verb	7	C2	to forget how many of something there is	I've lost count of how many of times she's been late.	I lost count of how often I heard this sentence when I used to work for a drug company.
evp	count	verb	8	C2	when you count something, or the total number you get after counting	At the last count there were 410 club members.	[At the last count they still had 5 thousand dollars and one night to spend it.
evp	count	verb	9	C2	to include someone in an activity	If you're going for a pizza, you can count me in.	I can always count her in. She is always there by my side.
evp	count	verb	10	B2	to have confidence in someone because you know they will do what you want	I can always count on my parents to help me.	So Jan, I'm sure I can count on you.
evp	count	verb	11	B2	to expect something to happen and make plans based on it	I didn't count on so many people coming to the party.	This town can always count on the same quality and variety of films as any other city in the world.
evp	count	verb	12	C2	to be part of what is needed to complete something or achieve something	This essay counts toward my final grade.	
evp	count	verb	13	C2	to add together all the people or things in a group	If you count up all the money in your various savings accounts, it is quite a large sum.	People might not consider food to be of great importance, but it surely is, especially counting up all the hours we spend in kitchens or in supermarkets (looking for food, thinking of what we might fancy having for dinner).
evp	counter	noun	1	B2	a long, flat, narrow surface or table in a store, bank, restaurant, etc. at which people are served	There was nobody at/behind the counter when I went into the bank, and I had to wait.	At McDonalds you buy food at a counter and take your seat, listening to a modern music.
evp	counter	noun	2	C2	a small disc used in some games that are played on a board	Move the counter forward two squares.	
evp	counter	adverb	1	C2	to have an effect opposite to something else	David’s decision to drop out of school to write plays ran counter to his parent’s expectations.	The saying goes "money can't buy happiness." [H]owever, he seems to run counter to these tenets since he leads quite a pleasant life.
evp	counterpart	noun	1	C1	someone or something that has the same job or position as someone or something in a different place or organization	I had a meeting with my counterpart in our other branch.	I feel much more confident at work in terms of both my English and the ability to negotiate with my counterparts.
evp	countless	adjective	1	C1	very many	The song has been played countless times on the radio.	There are countless reasons why I support this view, I would like to mention a few of the important ones here.
evp	count noun	noun	1	B1	a noun that can be used in the singular and the plural	Count nouns are shown here with [C].	
evp	country	noun	1	A1	an area of land that has its own government, army, etc.	Which is the largest country in South America?	I really like this day in my country.
evp	country	noun	2	A2	land that is not in towns, cities or industrial areas and is either used for farming or left in its natural condition	He lives out in the country somewhere.	It's in the country, near Sopramonte.
evp	country	noun	3	C2	the people who live in a country	The country was shocked by the President's decision.	The country was partying for two weeks.
evp	countryside	noun	1	B1	land that is not in towns, cities or industrial areas and is either used for farming or left in its natural condition	The countryside around there is beautiful.	But the countryside is very lovely to visit, too.
evp	county	noun	1	B2	the largest political division of a state or country	County Antrim	Since my family originates from the county of Dalarna, where "Dal" paintings are both very popular and common, I have started to paint a little on my own.
evp	coup	noun	1	C2	when a group of people suddenly takes control of a country using force	a military coup	The government of the country was formed three years ago after a military coup and is constituted primarily by the nephews of General Tomba, who headed the rebellious troops during the coup.
evp	couple	noun	1	B1	two or a few	He'll be better in a couple of days.	I went there a couple of times and I would love to go once more.
evp	couple	noun	2	B1	two people who are married or in a romantic or sexual relationship, or two people who are together for a particular purpose	a married couple	The couple can say what they want to eat on their wedding day.
evp	courage	noun	1	B2	the ability to deal with a dangerous or difficult situation without being frightened	I wanted to talk to him, but I didn't have the courage.	He had wanted to do it for a long time but never had the courage.
evp	courageous	adjective	1	C1	brave	a courageous decision	The people were very courageous and showed an extraordinary sense of calm.
evp	course	noun	1	A1	a set of classes or a plan of study in a particular subject, usually a part of a program of study for a diploma, certificate, or degree	a writing/math/English, etc. course	I like my ESOL course because I want to learn more English and improve my English.
evp	course	noun	2	A1	used to say "yes" and emphasize your answer	"Can you help me?" "Of course!"	Yes of course I can come.
evp	course	noun	3	A2	a part of a meal which is served separately from the other parts	a four-course lunch	For a main course we like potato with some meat.
evp	course	noun	4	A2	used to say "no" and emphasize your answer	"Do you mind if I borrow your pen?" "Of course not."	"Pardon. You said your u]ncle' will? Would you mind explaining that] please?" "Of course not!"
evp	course	noun	5	B1	used to show that what you are saying is obvious or already known	Of course, the Olympics are not just about money.	Of course, I met many new people.
evp	course	noun	6	B1	an area of land or water used for a sports event	a golf course	It is a very nice club, it has 20 tennis courts, 2 soccer fields and an 18-hole golf course.
evp	course	noun	7	C1	something that you can do in a particular situation	I think the best course of action would be to write to him.	However, I believe that the best course of action in this case is to give our student a refund.
evp	course	noun	8	C1	during a particular time or activity	He always chats with waiters and waitresses and becomes their best friends during the course of dinner.	During the course of my studies and internship, I worked not only with people suffering from certain disorders, but also with people who faced problems in interpersonal relationships.
evp	course	noun	9	C1	the route that a car, ship, aircraft, etc., is following or the route a river flows along	During the storm, the boat was blown off course.	Anyway, you will drive a certain course with an examiner, who will check your skills. The best way to prepare for this test is to drive the same course several times before the test.
evp	course	noun	10	C1	If something happens as a matter of course, it always happens as part of the normal process or system.	Babies were tested for the disease as a matter of course.	The transformation has succeeded so far and caused enormous changes in ordinary life as a matter of course, including eating habits.
evp	course	noun	11	C2	the way something develops, usually over a long time	Nuclear weapons have changed the course of modern history.	Civilizations have appeared changing the course of history and they have also disappeared, but they have all left something as a heritage or a legacy.
evp	court	noun	1	B1	an area drawn out on the ground that is used for playing sports such as tennis and basketball	a tennis/basketball/squash court	I stayed in a hotel with a swimming pool, tennis court and private beach.
evp	court	noun	2	B2	the place where a judge decides whether someone is guilty of a crime	He's due to appear in court again on Monday.	Two days after, I went to the law court as a witness.
evp	courteous	adjective	1	C2	polite and showing respect	We received a very courteous reply.	The library staff deserve congratulations: they are all very courteous and helpful.
evp	courtesy	noun	1	B2	polite behavior	The hotel staff must treat guests with courtesy at all times.	As McDonald's is a fast food restaurant, the service is speedy, but courtesy is sometimes poor.
evp	cousin	noun	1	A2	a child of a person's aunt or uncle	My brother's wife and I both had babies around the same time, so the cousins are very close in age.	I could help you with the instruments, as my cousin has a music shop.
evp	cover	verb	1	A2	to put something over something else, in order to protect or hide it	The light was so bright that I had to cover my eyes.	Bring a cap or something to cover your hair.
evp	cover	verb	2	B1	to form a layer on the surface of something	Snow covered the hillside.	The hills are covered by the snow.
evp	cover	verb	3	B1	to deal with or include a subject or piece of information	This leaflet covers what we've just discussed in more detail.	Dear Teacher, I'm sorry but I won't be able to go to the English class tomorrow. But I can go another day to cover the work I've missed.
evp	cover	verb	4	B2	to travel a particular distance	We covered 150 miles in four days.	I'm not even sure if I can manage to cover 60 km. I agree with Chris completely, it will be too difficult.
evp	cover	verb	5	B2	to be a particular size or area	The town covers an area of 5 square miles.	The other suggestion is the flower market, which is very famous for tourists because it covers 2 acres and there are plenty of flowers to buy.
evp	cover	verb	6	C1	to report the news about a particular important event	She's covering the US election for BBC television.	Should you have your company's channel cover the event] your profits from the advertisements will be innumerable.
evp	cover	verb	7	C1	to provide financial protection if something bad happens	travel insurance that covers accident and injury	
evp	cover	verb	8	C1	to be enough money to pay for something	One hundred dollars should cover the cost of the repairs.	This means that only 15% was allocat]e to cover the cost of entertainment and administration costs.
evp	cover	verb	9	C1	to put something over something else, in order to protect or hide it	We used a picture to cover up a hole in the wall.	I've seen numerous black and white photographs of my grandparents in traditional Japanese kimonos, covering up their body parts as much as possible.
evp	cover	verb	10	C2	to stop people from discovering the truth about something bad	She tried to cover up her mistakes.	Realizing too late that it was the wrong piece of music he was playing, he tried to cover it up, so the audience would not know he had made a mistake.
evp	cover	noun	1	B1	the outer part of a book, magazine, etc., that protects the pages	Her picture is on the cover of several magazines.	I received it for Christmas in 1991, and I immediately decided to write my name and my address on the cover.
evp	cover	noun	2	B1	something you put over something else, usually to protect it	I keep my computer printer under a protective plastic cover.	
evp	cover	noun	3	C1	financial protection so that you get money if something bad happens	The policy provides $150,000 accidental damage cover.	A mere 2% went on insurance cover.
evp	cover	noun	4	C1	protection from bad weather or an attack	They took cover under some trees until the rain stopped.	The bodyguards immediately reacted, shooting at the window through which Paul had fired, while the judge took cover under a near car.
evp	cover	noun	5	C2	to not decide what someone or something is like only by looking at them	You know, his desk is a mess but don't judge a book by it's cover, he does careful, detailed work.	I'm simply pointing out one should never judge a book by it's cover as things aren't always what they seem.
evp	coverage	noun	1	C1	the way a newspaper, television program, etc. reports an event or subject	There is live coverage of the game on cable TV.	Jos is very well known among people who love Formula 2 autoracing and I know there are a lot of them all over the world because of the intense media coverage.
evp	cow	noun	1	A1	a large female farm animal kept to produce meat and milk	a dairy cow	I like this house because there aren't any neighbors] just cows and fields.
evp	coward	noun	1	B2	someone who is not brave and tries to avoid dangerous or difficult situations	You didn't talk to her? You coward!	Instead of behaving like a wise grown-up, I behaved like a coward.
evp	cowardly	adjective	1	B2	behaving in a way that shows you are not brave	This was a particularly brutal and cowardly attack.	Bernard was usually weak, depressed, cowardly and pessimistic, but, on the other hand, when he became popular and famous by taking advantage of John, he was so boastful.
evp	cozy	adjective	1	B1	comfortable and warm	This cabin stays warm and cozy all winter.	Right now I am staying in a beautiful hotel by a glistening lake. It is warm and cozy.
evp	crab	noun	1	B2	a sea creature with ten legs and a round, flat body covered by a shell, or the meat from this animal	crab salad	Children can look at live fish, crabs and lobsters.
evp	crack	verb	1	B2	to break something so that very thin lines appear on its surface but it does not separate, or to become broken in this way	A stone hit the window and cracked the glass.	The bottom tank cracked and the sea-water poured into the tank and further into the engine-room.
evp	crack	verb	2	C1	to tell a joke	He seemed very relaxed, laughing and cracking jokes.	Many members will get the chance to show their talent and we will get to crack some jokes too!
evp	crack	verb	3	C2	to start dealing with bad or illegal behavior in a more severe way	Police are cracking down on crime in the area.	Introducing a totally new policy, dismissing the members of the parliament and cracking down on the leftist underworld, he proved to be a person really dedicated to the country.
evp	crack	verb	4	C2	to become mentally ill	We're worried he'll crack up completely if he doesn't get help.	Nevertheless, one must also bear in mind the fact that, since Douglas was overworked, Olivia had a tedious, boring life and was about to crack up, when the Nawab came to rescue her.
evp	crack	verb	5	C2	to laugh a lot or to make someone laugh a lot	His impressions of my Dad really crack me up.	One film that I found hilariously funny was "Meet the Parents." Directed by Frank Oz, this film has all the qualifications to make someone crack up.
evp	crack	noun	1	C2	a line on the surface of something that is damaged	Several cups had cracks in them.	Behind the glass doors you could see a Chinese tea-set totally unsuitable for tea drinking as all the cups had cracks but I wasn't allowed to throw it away because it had been presented by some relative and that was enough to turn it into an everlasting treasure.
evp	crack	noun	2	C2	very early in the morning	He gets up at the crack of dawn.	From the crack of dawn until bed time citizens have to breathe all kinds of gas coming out of cars, motor]bike or factor]ies
evp	crackdown	noun	1	C2	when bad or illegal behavior is dealt with in a very severe way, in order to stop it happening	The police will begin a crackdown on speeding over the holiday weekend.	
evp	cracker	noun	1	A1	a flat, dry, small baked bread	cheese and crackers	I'll make some food to eat and buy some crackers.
evp	craft	noun	1	B2	an activity in which you make something using a lot of skill, especially with your hands	the craft of furniture-making/boat-building	You will find some interesting Swedish craft work there and get the best shots of the local people.
evp	crash	verb	1	B1	to have an accident in a vehicle	He skidded on the ice and crashed into another car.	I crashed my car and here in my city the bus is terrible.
evp	crash	verb	2	B2	If a computer or computer system crashes, it suddenly stops working.	My computer keeps crashing.	Will the computers crash after New Year?
evp	crash	verb	3	C1	If a financial market crashes, prices suddenly fall by a large amount.	They lost all their savings when the market crashed.	
evp	crash	noun	1	B1	an accident in which a vehicle hits something	a car/plane crash	Hi, as you know I had a car crash and my car is damaged.
evp	crash	noun	2	B2	a sudden, loud noise made when something falls or breaks	I heard a crash and hurried into the kitchen.	A loud crash disturbed the silence of the night.
evp	crash	noun	3	C1	when the value of a country's businesses suddenly falls by a large amount	He lost a lot of money in the stock market crash of 1929.	Regarding the economy of the globe, this intensive trading may lead to a worldwide crash.
evp	crave	verb	1	C2	to want something very much	a child who craves affection	These people tend to forget the essence of man's heart, which craves only for love, and kindness, and friendship, and loyalty.
evp	craving	noun	1	C2	a strong feeling that you want or need something	She had a craving for something salty.	It's a well-known fact that many women of all ages sometimes have a craving for chocolate.
evp	crawl	verb	1	B2	to move on your hands and knees	The child crawled across the floor.	I crawled out from under the bed and stood u]p
evp	crawl	verb	2	C2	If an insect crawls, it uses its legs to move.	There's an ant crawling up your leg.	She is sort of dusting off her legs and skirt. We can't actually see what is happening. We get there to find out that tens of big red ants are crawling on to her.
evp	crawl	verb	3	C2	to be full of insects or people in a way that is unpleasant	The kitchen's crawling with ants.	
evp	crawl	noun	1	C1	a very slow speed	Traffic slowed to a crawl.	Every morning traffic was reduced to a crawl.
evp	crawl	noun	2	C1	a style of swimming in which you move your arms over your head and kick with straight legs	front/back crawl	I can already swim breaststroke and crawl but I am unable to swim backstroke and the dolphin-like style.
evp	craziness	noun	1	C2	the state of being crazy	I couldn't stand the craziness of their household.	My home might, for an outsider, give the feeling of complete disorder, not to say craziness but I can assure you that it was not true at all.
evp	crazy	adjective	1	A2	stupid or strange	It's a crazy idea.	[At] the party, we danced, sang and we played many crazy games.
evp	crazy	adjective	2	A2	to love someone very much, or to be very interested in something	Mia's crazy about baseball.	I'm crazy about rap music.
evp	crazy	adjective	3	B1	to become very excited about something	When he came on stage the audience went crazy.	So when our teachers told us yesterday that a TV company would come and film this project and do interviews with us, everybody went crazy.
evp	crazy	adjective	4	B2	annoyed or angry	The constant noise drove me crazy.	Be careful because you know computers drive me crazy.
evp	crazy	adjective	5	C1	doing something a lot or in a fast way	We worked like crazy to get everything finished.	My heart was beating like crazy and when the ski-boat started its journey along the blue waves of the sea...
evp	cream	noun	1	A2	the thick yellowish-white liquid that is taken from milk	strawberries and cream	For dessert [I like ice-cream with cream and chocolate sauce.
evp	cream	noun	2	A2	a yellowish-white color	We chose cream for the walls.	I'm going paint my bedroom cream in color.
evp	cream	noun	3	B1	a soft substance that you rub into your skin	face/hand cream	
evp	cream	noun	4	C1	the best people or things in a particular group	the cream of Milan's designers	Last but not least, many Japanese style hotels and restaurants now have square holes in tatami (straw mat) rooms so that foreign visitors can comfortably stretch their legs under the low table without having to be seated on folded legs like Zen monks! Thus you will find it easier to enjoy the cream of Japanese hospitality without tears.
evp	cream	adjective	1	A2	having a yellowish-white color	a cream shirt	Well, here in Spain the woman always wears a white or cream dress.
evp	create	verb	1	B1	to make something happen or exist	The project will create more than 500 jobs.	We had to create a new website for the club, and everybody seemed to have great fun.
evp	creation	noun	1	B2	the act of creating something, or the thing that is created	the creation of a new political party	First of all, since the creation of the virtual world internet, computers have been used to communicate very quickly from one computer to another.
evp	creative	adjective	1	B1	producing or using original and unusual ideas	She's very creative.	I love to be creative.
evp	creatively	adverb	1	B2	in a creative way	We have to think creatively about this problem.	I think that our college should have some of this kind of activities, so that students can spend their time creatively.
evp	creativity	noun	1	B2	the ability to produce new ideas or things using skill and imagination	I admire her creativity.	Realistic stories thus, develop our imagination and creativity, which are essential in our lives.
evp	creature	noun	1	B1	anything that lives but is not a plant	Rain forests are filled with amazing creatures.	There are some sea creatures (some are poisonous) that you have to avoid.
evp	credibility	noun	1	C2	when someone can be believed and trusted	This decision has damaged the President's credibility.	The media source and its credibility play a major role in determining the objectivity and realistic portrayal although there have been cases where even mainstream publications have participated in manipulative alterations.
evp	credit	noun	1	B1	an amount owed to you and available for you to use on goods or for a service	The coat was the wrong size so I returned it and now I have a credit.	I will talk to you on the phone in a week['s] time as I don't] have enough credit.
evp	credit	noun	2	B1	a method of paying for goods or services at a later time, usually paying interest as well as the original money	They decided to buy the sofa on credit.	My father spent lots of money without having the cash. Unfortunately a credit loan company helped him.
evp	credit	noun	3	B2	praise, approval or honor	I did all the work and Amy got the credit for it!	I took part in this event and I think that you haven't given it enough credit.
evp	credit	noun	4	B2	a unit that shows you have completed a college course	The Italian class is a 5-credit course and meets 4 days a week.	"How could you get such a result?" her father barked, after seeing her report card which stated only two credits.
evp	credit	noun	5	C2	If something is to someone's credit, they deserve praise for it.	To his credit, Bill never blamed her for the incident.	He also has good sportsmanship, to his credit.
evp	credit card	noun	1	A1	a small plastic card that allows you to buy something and pay for it later	I paid by credit card.	The wallet contains all my credit cards and my ticket to London.
evp	crew	noun	1	B1	the people who work together on a ship, aircraft or train	cabin crew	When I was going back I saw the crew from my plane.
evp	crew	noun	2	B2	a team of people with special skills who work together	an ambulance/lifeboat crew	I recommend that you and your film crew visit Zurich during August, because it's very cold and the weather is mostly bad in January.
evp	cricket	noun	1	A2	a sport in which two teams of eleven players try to score points by hitting a small ball with a bat, and running between two sets of small wooden posts	a cricket ball/bat	We played cricket at the party.
evp	cricket	noun	2	C2	an insect that jumps and makes a noise by rubbing its wings together	We could hear the crickets in the grass.	The distant chirping of crickets was music to my ears.
evp	crime	noun	1	B1	illegal activities	crime prevention	The problem is the pollution and the crime.
evp	crime	noun	2	B1	an illegal act	He admitted committing several crimes, including two robberies.	It's about the police in Los Angeles, I think, trying to discover how the criminals did the crimes.
evp	criminal	noun	1	B1	someone who commits a crime	a dangerous/violent criminal	At least he didn't attack me, and he even lent me his cell phone, he was such a gentle criminal.
evp	criminal	adjective	1	B2	relating to crime	criminal activity	In spite of his criminal background I came to believe that man and also like him.
evp	crisis	noun	1	B2	a situation or time that is extremely dangerous or difficult	an economic/financial crisis	It is a crisis not only for animals but also for the planet.
evp	crisp	adjective	1	C2	Crisp cloth or paper money is clean and looks new, with no folds.	a crisp linen shirt	The first impression is that of quiet elegance with white table cloths, crisp napkins, lovely pastel flowers on the tables and thick carpeting on the floors.
evp	crisp	adjective	2	C2	Crisp weather is pleasantly cold and dry.	a crisp autumn day	It was one of these beautiful crisp September days when the woods are adorned in autumnal browns and golds.
evp	criterion	noun	1	C1	a fact or level of quality that you use when making a choice or decision	We have strict criteria for deciding which students will receive a grant.	Please do contact me if you have similar apartments under the criteria I have mentioned above.
evp	critic	noun	1	B2	someone whose job is to give their opinion about something, especially movies, books, music, etc.	a film/theater/music critic	"The Blind Owl" - his masterpiece - is a surrealistic novella which has amused critics and ordinary readers for years.
evp	critic	noun	2	C1	someone who says that they do not approve of someone or something	an outspoken critic of the government	I am not a critic of modern technology and I am not among those people who have pessimistic ideas about it.
evp	critical	adjective	1	B2	saying that someone or something is bad or wrong	a critical report	Some of them are very critical of their food.
evp	critical	adjective	2	B2	of the greatest importance to the way things might happen	The President's support is critical to this project.	It was a critical moment. Tom realized that we have to do something or the problems would be worse.
evp	critical	adjective	3	B2	extremely serious or dangerous	The doctors said her condition was critical and she might not survive.	The doctor only said she was critical, not dead!
evp	critical	adjective	4	C2	giving careful judgments and opinions on something	a critical study of Tennyson's work	In fact, teachers and professors give us the opportunity to broaden our knowledge, sharpen our critical thought and in general to cultivate our mind and soul.
evp	critically	adverb	1	B2	in a way that is critical	They were both critically injured in the crash.	Cars are even more important for emergency situations such as a fire in a house or if somebody is critically ill.
evp	criticism	noun	1	B2	when you say that something or someone is bad	The designs for the new building have attracted widespread criticism.	Another criticism is that there were not enough plays and films.
evp	criticize	verb	1	B2	to say that someone or something is bad	The government is being criticized by the press for failing to pass air pollution legislation.	In my opinion zoos are a dated institution. Many people have criticized this form of entertainment.
evp	crocodile	noun	1	B2	a large reptile with a long mouth and sharp teeth, that lives in lakes and rivers	a crocodile-infested swamp	My friend started to walk into the water when suddenly a crocodile grabbed her leg.
evp	crop	noun	1	B1	a plant such as a grain, fruit or vegetable that is grown in large amounts, or the amount of plants of a particular type that are produced at one time	The main crops grown for export are coffee and rice.	You can do lots of things that you can't do in the city, such as plant crops.
evp	cross	verb	1	A2	to go across from one side of something to the other	It's not a good place to cross the road.	[The] train station is near my home. Just cross the road and turn Left and you['ll] see it in front of you.
evp	cross	verb	2	B2	If an idea crosses your mind, you think about it for a short time.	It never crossed my mind that she might be married.	The first thought that crossed his mind was to call the police immediately and that was what he actually did.
evp	cross	verb	3	C2	to travel over a border or line into a different area, country, etc.	They crossed from Albania into Greece.	It was when I was about to cross the U.S. border that I faced my greatest challenge.
evp	cross	verb	4	C2	to hope that things will happen in the way that you want them to, and to put a finger over the one next to it as a sign of that hope	Let's keep our fingers crossed that she gets the job.	Wish me luck, Winnie," she sighed "keep your fingers crossed, please."
evp	cross	verb	5	C2	to meet someone, especially by accident	Mike has moved away and I doubt he'll ever cross my path again.	We are all socialized by our peers, family and other people who cross our path at one time or another.
evp	cross	noun	1	A1	a written mark (x), usually used to show where something is, or that something has not been written correctly	Put a cross next to the name of the person you are voting for.	
evp	cross	noun	2	B1	two pieces of wood that cross each other, on which people were left to die in the past as a punishment, or an object in this shape, used as a symbol of the Christian religion	She wears a gold cross around her neck.	That's the reason why this little cross is so important to me.
evp	crossing	noun	1	B1	a place where people can go across a road, river, etc.	a pedestrian crossing	The taxi driver shouted at every pedestrian crossing.
evp	crossing	noun	2	C1	a trip across water	regular ferry crossings from Tenerife to Gran Canaria	On the ferry there are restaurants and a Tax-Free Shop. The crossing takes about 50 minutes.
evp	crossroads	noun	1	B2	a place where two roads cross each other	Turn left at the crossroads.	When you go out of the hotel, turn right and at the first crossroads turn right again.
evp	crowd	noun	1	A2	a large group of people who have come together	A large crowd gathered outside the pop star's hotel.	I can become a volunteer to control the crowds.
evp	crowd	verb	1	C1	to stand together in large numbers	Protesters crowded the streets.	However, this is not the case in big cities, since inhabitants from all over the world crowd their streets.
evp	crowded	adjective	1	A2	If a place is crowded, it is full of people.	By ten o'clock the market was crowded.	However I think that you should get there by car because the bus is crowded.
evp	crucial	adjective	1	B2	extremely important or necessary	a crucial decision/question	Clothes play a crucial part in our everyday lives.
evp	crude	adjective	1	C2	made or done in a simple way and without much skill	a crude device/weapon	Glancing at the crude plan of the building I realised I had no choice but to search every room in order to find the required documents.
evp	crude	adjective	2	C2	rude and offensive	a crude comment/remark	A necessary condition, of course, is a ban on crude words or meanings, as, funnier though such word may make programs of this sort, they also render them inappropriate for younger listeners.
evp	cruel	adjective	1	B1	extremely unkind and unpleasant and causing pain to people or animals intentionally	Don't tease him about his weight - it's cruel.	The terrorists in the film are very cruel and also have an atomic weapon.
evp	cruelly	adverb	1	B2	in a cruel way	She had been very cruelly treated.	Many young people and children go and look at various kinds of animals cruelly held behind the bars.
evp	cruelty	noun	1	B2	cruel behavior or a cruel action	The farmer was accused of cruelty to animals.	The methods he used to become the farm leader, the way he ignored the seven commandments, make him cruel - a cruelty he took to the extreme, causing damage to everyone living on the farm except to himself.
evp	cruise	noun	1	B1	a vacation on a large ship, sailing from place to place	My parents are going on a cruise this summer.	Luca gave it to me last year, during our romantic cruise.
evp	cruise	verb	1	B2	to go on a cruise or boat trip	They're cruising around the Caribbean.	The end-of-conference party will take place on a boat cruising on the lake.
evp	crumble	verb	1	C2	to break into small pieces, or to make something break into small pieces	Buildings crumbled as the earthquake struck.	It's completely impossible to sleep under those circumstances: a horrible howling that is so loud you can't even hear yourself think; a house that trembles so fiercely you think it's going to crumble any second in front of your very bulging eyes.
evp	crush	verb	1	C2	to press something so hard that it is made flat or broken into pieces	Her car was crushed by a falling tree.	Thus, in the last chapters, one notices that Ralph and Piggy have become inseparable friends, a friendship which is abruptly terminated by that huge rock that also crushes the conch.
evp	crush	noun	1	C2	a crowd of people forced to stand close together because there is not enough room	Many people fell over in the crush.	
evp	crush	noun	2	C2	a strong temporary feeling of love for someone	Tim has a crush on Jennifer.	He told me that one of his friends had a crush on me and wanted to know if I liked him.
evp	cry	verb	1	A2	to produce tears from your eyes, usually because you are sad, angry or hurt	I could hear someone crying in the next room.	He always cries and I'm very sad about it.
evp	cry	verb	2	B1	to say something loudly	"Look out!" she cried.	I cried out his name.
evp	cry	verb	3	C2	If someone cries their eyes out, they cry a lot about a problem or situation.	When she heard the fire had destroyed the houses, she cried her eyes out.	She passed away when I was six years old. I cried my eyes out.
evp	cry	verb	4	C2	someone who gives you sympathy when you are upset	I always had a shoulder to cry on.	I am always there for her and I know I will always have a shoulder to cry on.
evp	cry	verb	5	C2	to need something very much	a school that's crying out for more money	She had the unhappiest look I've ever seen and one could see through her brown, almond-shaped eyes that she was crying out for affection and love.
evp	cry	verb	6	C2	to shout or make a loud noise because you are frightened, hurt, etc.	She cried out in pain as she fell.	The guide ended this bit of information and led the people out of the corridor when one young child cried out in terror.
evp	cry	noun	1	B1	a shout, especially one that shows someone is frightened, hurt, etc.	a cry of pain	As the concert finished, I heard someone call my name. The cry came from the VIP-entrance.
evp	cry	noun	2	C1	to be very different from something	Her luxury mansion is a far cry from the house she grew up in.	The museum was a far cry from what we expected. Not only were the machines really old and should have been replaced a long time ago, but they were boring as well.
evp	cry	noun	3	C2	a sound that a particular animal or bird makes	an eagle's cry	Then one could carefully pick one's way through a lot of shallow ponds, which had been concealed by the salty water before, and accompanied by cries of seagulls, climb Castle Rock.
evp	cucumber	noun	1	B1	a long, green vegetable that you eat raw in salads	sliced cucumber	We asked for three burgers with cucumbers.
evp	cultivate	verb	1	C1	to prepare land and grow crops on it, or to grow as a crop	This shrub is cultivated in Europe as a culinary herb.	We're cutting down our forests to cultivate the plants which give us nourishing food.
evp	cultivate	verb	2	C2	to try to develop or improve something	She has cultivated an image as a tough negotiator.	Moreover, students are not usually encouraged to attend art or drama classes and cultivate their talents.
evp	cultivation	noun	1	C1	the process of preparing land and growing crops	The area was drained so that cultivation could begin.	The basic thing is that people should be provided with better facilities for their cultivation of crops and farming, so they can earn their bread and butter in their own environment.
evp	cultural	adjective	1	B1	relating to the habits, traditions and beliefs of a society	cultural diversity/differences/identity	If you are interested in visiting historic buildings, Palermo is wonderful concerning its cultural and artistic heritage.
evp	cultural	adjective	2	B1	relating to music, art, theater, literature, etc.	cultural activities/events	There are lots of cultural attractions, and nightly discos.
evp	culturally	adverb	1	B2	in a way that relates to culture	It's a culturally diverse society.	What I think is that Rome has to become a cultural pole, and becoming culturally vital, it will gradually look better.
evp	culture	noun	1	B1	the way of life, especially the habits, traditions and beliefs, of a particular group of people at a particular time	youth culture	I will tell you about Korean culture when you come here.
evp	culture	noun	2	B1	music, art, theater, literature, etc.	popular culture	I would suggest you to come to visit me here in Genoa, because this is a very unusual city and this year, it is also the capital of culture.
evp	cunning	adjective	1	C2	clever at getting what you want, especially by tricking people	a cunning plan	It was a result of a cunning plan they had laid months ago.
evp	cup	noun	1	A1	a small round container, often with a handle, used for drinking tea, coffee, etc.	a cup of coffee/tea	I'd like to drink a cup of tea.
evp	cup	noun	2	B1	a specially designed cup, usually with two handles and often made of silver, which is given as a prize in a sports competition, or a game or match in which the winner receives such a cup	Anna won this cup in the school squash championship.	This weekend we worked hard to win the tennis cup.
evp	cupboard	noun	1	B1	a cabinet with shelves inside used for storing things	a kitchen cupboard	When I opened my cupboard to get my hat I found your watch.
evp	curb	verb	1	C2	to limit or control something	to curb crime/inflation	"If I become Prime Minister, the first issues on my political agenda will be to curb government spending on armaments, to reorganize the bureaucratic system, to reduce the rate of unemployment," he told me the last time I saw him.
evp	cure	verb	1	B2	to make someone with an illness healthy again	At the time, they couldn't cure the disease.	Harry and the other racketeers had watered down the medicine, so it was useless for curing the meningitis.
evp	cure	verb	2	C1	to solve a problem	the fight to cure social inequality	I found out that this problem can be cured in only one way and that is not going to English courses.
evp	cure	noun	1	B2	something that makes someone with an illness healthy again	They are trying to find a cure for cancer.	He was only an intelligent scientist who looked into an AIDS cure. Laura thought he must have found something very special.
evp	curiosity	noun	1	B2	the feeling of wanting to know or learn about something	My curiosity got the better of me and I opened the envelope.	When the warrior had left, he explored the cave out of curiosity and to his big surprise he found the treasure.
evp	curious	adjective	1	B1	wanting to know or learn about something	I was curious to know what would happen next.	I was curious about it, so I picked it up.
evp	curiously	adverb	1	B1	showing that you want to know or learn more	She looked at him curiously.	Everyone around looked at me curiously.
evp	curiously	adverb	2	B2	strangely	Curiously, there didn't seem to be a bank in the
town.	Curiously, a few days before the murder Emma received a letter from a French girl named Martine saying she wanted to visit them.
evp	curly	adjective	1	B1	shaped like a curl, or with many curls	curly hair	He has got long fair curly hair and big blue eyes.
evp	currency	noun	1	B1	the money that is used in a particular country at a particular time	foreign currency	Take local currency in case you want to buy something.
evp	current	adjective	1	B2	happening or existing now	Is that your current address?	Dear Mr Thomas, I was interested in y]ou advertisement in the current edition of "Spotlight" and I would like to apply for a job in one of your campsites.
evp	currently	adverb	1	B2	at the present time	The company currently employs around 750 people.	I am 22 years old and I am currently studying trade and tourism.
evp	curriculum	noun	1	B1	the group of subjects studied in a school, college, etc.	the school curriculum	Introducing in schools the system of learning only the things one enjoys would make the curriculum impossible to create.
evp	curry	noun	1	A2	a type of food, originally from South Asia, consisting of meat or vegetables cooked with hot spices	a hot/mild curry	After the film we can go and get something to eat like curry and rice.
evp	cursor	noun	1	B2	a symbol on a computer screen which shows the place where you are working	Put the cursor over the word you want to look up.	The black space reserved for the answer appeared and the text cursor started to blink.
evp	curtain	noun	1	A2	a piece of material which hangs down to cover a window, stage, etc.	Could you close/draw the curtains?	I think it is behind the curtains.
evp	curve	noun	1	B2	a line that bends around, like part of a circle	a curve in the road	The other person was slimmer and she had womanly curves.
evp	cushion	noun	1	B1	a cloth bag filled with something soft which you sit on or lean against to make you comfortable	She sank back against/into the cushions.	I['ll] go to buy a nice wardrobe, an armchair and a lot of cushions.
evp	cushion	noun	2	C2	something that protects you from possible problems	Overseas savings provide a cushion against tax increases at home.	The only answer for the Spanish situation is that families are acting as a cushion, by giving the youngest in working age housing and help.
evp	custody	noun	1	C2	the legal right to care for a child, especially when parents separate	When they divorced, it was Nicola who won custody of their two children.	My parents were fighting a long and tiring battle in court, over the custody of us children.
evp	custody	noun	2	C2	when someone is kept in prison, usually while they are waiting for a trial in court	He is being held in custody in Los Angeles charged with assault.	Not only was he badly injured during the following years, but he was also kept in custody by the Russians for about two years.
evp	custom	noun	1	B1	a way of behaving or a belief which has been established for a long time	local/ancient customs	It is a custom that the bride wears a white wedding dress and she carries a bouquet of flowers in her hands.
evp	customary	adjective	1	C1	normal or expected for a particular person, situation, or society	It is customary for the chairman to make the opening speech.	It is also customary among youngsters to talk about new films or movies.
evp	customer	noun	1	A2	a person who buys goods or a service	a satisfied customer	Unfortunat[e]ly I will not be able to go because this week I have to go to Germany to do business with one of our customers.
evp	customs	noun	1	B1	the place where your bags are examined when you are going into a country, to make sure you are not carrying anything illegal	customs officials	I work as a customs officer and I meet a lot of foreign people every day.
evp	cut	verb	1	A2	to use a knife or other sharp tool to divide something, remove part of something, or make a hole in something	She cut herself a slice of bread.	I cut the cake with my friends.
evp	cut	verb	2	B1	to injure yourself on a sharp object which makes you bleed	She cut her finger on some broken glass.	The robot had cut its hand.
evp	cut	verb	3	B2	to reduce the size or amount of something	cut prices/costs	The third thing is Internet business] This way is very good for both consumer and company, to cut the cost.
evp	cut	verb	4	B2	to remove part of a film or piece of writing	Several scenes had been cut when the movie was shown on TV.	You'll see how the film is cut to fit the story into two hours, more or less.
evp	cut	verb	5	B2	to go from one side of an area to the other, instead of going around it	If we cut across this field, it will save time.	I wanted to cut across the garden of the house, and climbed over the fence.
evp	cut	verb	6	C1	If a problem or subject cuts across different groups of people, all of those groups are affected by it or interested in it.	Interest in the Internet cuts across all age groups.	The TV has a wide audience cutting across all the sections of the society.
evp	cut	verb	7	C2	to reduce the amount of money being spent on something	We have had to cut back on training this year.	There are ways to cut back on spending.
evp	cut	verb	8	B2	If you cut down a tree or bush, you make it fall to the ground by cutting it near the bottom.	The new owners cut down the apple trees.	People cut down the tropical rainforest to get the wood and make room for agriculture.
evp	cut	verb	9	B2	to reduce the amount, number, length or size of something	They've cut her hours down at work.	You'll see that this will help you to cut down your overtime in the long run.
evp	cut	verb	10	B2	to eat or drink less of a particular thing, usually in order to improve your health	I'm trying to cut down on the amount of sugar I eat.	Secondly you must quit smoking and you must cut down on coffee.
evp	cut	verb	11	B2	to stop providing something such as electricity or water	If we don't pay the gas bill, we'll be cut off.	That's when the electricity was cut off.
evp	cut	verb	12	B2	to prevent people from reaching or leaving a place, or to separate them from other people	The whole village was cut off by flooding.	We were isolated from the other nearby villages because the snow cut off the only road to our village.
evp	cut	verb	13	C1	to remove something or form a shape by cutting, usually something made of paper or cloth	She cut out his picture from the magazine.	To make it cheaper, cut the coupons out of the papers, don't go shopping when you're hungry and try to stick to your budget.
evp	cut	verb	14	C1	to stop eating or drinking something, usually to improve your health	I've cut out red meat from my diet.	I think they should also try to cut out cigarettes and take some exercise besides changing their eating habits.
evp	cut	verb	15	C2	to not have the right qualities for something	I'm not really cut out to be a nurse.	I still think her behavior was absolutely beastly, because students will always make mistakes but it is vital not to reprimand them too harshly otherwise they will lose all their confidence and become convinced that they are not cut out for school.
evp	cut	verb	16	B1	to cut something into pieces	Could you cut up the cake and put it on plates?	I cut up the cake.
evp	cut	noun	1	B1	an injury made when the skin is cut with something sharp	He suffered cuts and bruises in the accident.	I have got a broken knee, but apart from that and a few cuts and bruises, I'm all right.
evp	cut	noun	2	C1	a reduction in the number or amount of something	tax/job cuts	Unfortunately, due to government spending cuts he has lost his employment.
evp	cutback	noun	1	C1	a reduction of something, usually to save money	The company has made cutbacks and closed one of its factories.	There have been enormous cutbacks in the budget and children and teenagers are the ones who have suffered the most.
evp	cutting-edge	adjective	1	C1	very modern and with all the newest developments	cutting-edge design/technology	On the other hand, in the past our previous generation could not enjoy such cutting-edge technology as it was not developed well before 1970.
evp	CV	noun	1	B1	a document which describes your education, qualifications and the jobs you have done, which you send to an employer that you want to work for	Send me your CV.	Th[ese] students are the same as me, they want to pass their exams next year and put the degree on their CV.
evp	cycle	noun	1	B2	a series of events which happen in a particular order and are often repeated	the life cycle of a moth	So, the main disadvantage of zoos is that they put animals away from something which belongs to the natural cycle of life.
evp	cycle	noun	2	B2	a bicycle	a cycle route/ride	I am writing about our cycle routes.
evp	cycle	verb	1	B1	to ride a bicycle	I usually walk or cycle to work.	We cycled around Hungary.
evp	cycling	noun	1	A2	the sport or activity of riding a bicycle	professional cycling	I want to go swimming and cycling.
evp	cyclist	noun	1	B1	someone who rides a bike	He drove into a cyclist.	[There] was me, my friend and a group of ten people guided by a professional cyclist.
evp	cynical	adjective	1	C2	believing that people are only interested in themselves and are not sincere	Many people have become cynical about politicians.	Consequently, we had better not jump to such cynical conclusions and enjoy the competition.
evp	dad	noun	1	A1	a father	It was nice to see your mom and dad at the school concert last night.	My dad gave me a computer.
evp	daily	adjective	1	A2	happening or done every day or once a day	Exercise has become part of my daily routine.	It's very easy to reach because some bus companies provide a daily bus service.
evp	daily	adjective	2	B1	the usual things that happen to you every day	I try to keep exercise a part of my daily life.	Mr. Bean often does funny things in his daily life.
evp	daily	adverb	1	A2	every day or once a day	Take the medication twice daily.	It's open daily.
evp	dairy	adjective	1	B2	relating to milk or products made using milk	dairy products	Meat, poultry, vegetables and dairy products are excellent for your health.
evp	damage	noun	1	B1	harm or injury	Strong winds had caused serious damage to the roof.	I read in the paper last week that overworking may cause serious damage to your health.
evp	damage	verb	1	B1	to harm, break or spoil something	Many buildings were badly damaged during the war.	They may be using chemicals that could damage the ozone layer.
evp	damaged	adjective	1	B1	harmed or spoiled	They're selling off damaged goods at reduced prices.	Unfortunately, my father died from a fractured skull and a damaged brain.
evp	damp	adjective	1	B2	slightly wet, especially in a way that is not pleasant or comfortable	The grass is still damp.	I have recently noticed that they are stored in dark, damp rooms because the library has no money to restore these places.
evp	dance	verb	1	A1	to move your feet and body to the rhythm of music	We danced all night.	She likes to go out with her friends and her boyfriend, play computer games, dance, etc.
evp	dance	noun	1	A1	when you move your feet and body to music	OK - one more dance before we go home.	I did a dance and it was very beautiful.
evp	dance	noun	2	A2	a social occasion at which people dance	Our band will play at the school dance.	Yesterday I bought two t-shirts and a skirt for a dance at school.
evp	dance	noun	3	A2	the activity or skill of dancing	a dance class	There was a dance floor there and the D.J. was very nice.
evp	dance	noun	4	B1	a particular series of movements which you perform to music or the type of music which is connected with it	The band played a slow dance.	There will be music and traditional dances from the countries involved in the meeting.
evp	dancer	noun	1	A2	someone who dances either as a job or for pleasure	He's a dancer in the Royal Ballet.	He is a very good dancer, too.
evp	dancing	noun	1	A1	the activity of moving your feet and your body to the rhythm of music	Do you want to go dancing tonight?	He likes football, dancing, and snowboarding.
evp	danger	noun	1	A2	the possibility that someone or something will be harmed or killed, or that something bad will happen	Danger! Keep out!	I thought Steven was in danger [-] somebody wanted to kill him or something like that.
evp	danger	noun	2	B1	something or someone that may harm you	Icy roads are a danger to drivers.	In fact cars may be a danger to human life in many ways.
evp	dangerous	adjective	1	A2	Someone or something that is dangerous could harm you.	dangerous chemicals	I can do anything you want but nothing dangerous!
evp	dangerously	adverb	1	B1	in a way that is dangerous	She drives dangerously.	[A driver could lose his or her life by driving dangerously.
evp	dark	adjective	1	A1	nearer to black than white in color	dark blue/green	I like wearing dark color clothes, I always liked them.
evp	dark	adjective	2	A2	with little or no light	It was too dark to see properly.	It was a very dark night.
evp	dark	adjective	3	C1	frightening or unpleasant	a dark period in human history	They cannot cope with such matters as finances and studies, so they have to turn to the dark side of society.
evp	dark	noun	1	B1	when there is no light somewhere	Cats can see in the dark.	As I was walking alone in the dark, I got really scared.
evp	dark	noun	2	B1	before/after the sun has gone down	It isn't safe to leave the house after dark.	Yesterday, soon after dark, I was in the kitchen and I was making my dinner.
evp	dark	noun	3	C2	not knowing about something because other people are not telling you	They kept us in the dark about their plans.	Peter had always kept her in the dark about the reason for their fight.
evp	darkness	noun	1	B2	when there is little or no light	There was a power failure and the house was in darkness.	Too frightened to start crying, I just stood up and stared into the darkness.
evp	darling	noun	1	B2	used when you speak to someone you love or like	Would you like a drink, darling?	Don't worry, darling.
evp	dash	verb	1	B2	to go somewhere quickly	I've been dashing around all day.	I dashed out, almost forgetting the gift I had bought for my friend.
evp	dash	noun	1	B2	when you run somewhere very quickly	We made a dash for the bus.	I made a dash to catch the plane.
evp	dash	noun	2	B2	a mark (-) that can be used to separate parts of a sentence		
evp	dash	noun	3	C2	a small amount of something, often food	Serve the tomatoes with a dash of salt and some olive oil.	The beginners should add a dash of syrup to the beer and taste the difference.
evp	data	noun	1	B2	information or facts about something (in scientific English, this can be followed by a plural verb, where the singular form is "datum")	The data was collected by various researchers.	I collected lots of data on different air, noise, water, sea and land pollution.
evp	data	noun	2	B2	information in the form of text, numbers or symbols that can be used by or stored in a computer	Now the data is being transferred from magnetic tape to hard disk.	Save your data on the hard disk bit by bit - do not wait until the whole article is ready.
evp	database	noun	1	B2	a large amount of information stored in a computer system in such a way that it can be easily looked at or changed	We're linked to the online database at our head office.	So, we decided to access our school database and change our test results.
evp	date	noun	1	A1	a particular day of a month or year	What's the date?/What's today's date?	Let me know the date of your visit.
evp	date	noun	2	B1	a plan for something to happen at a particular time	Let's make a date to have lunch.	We made a date for our next meeting in the "Mamboo."
evp	date	noun	3	B1	a social meeting when two people go somewhere together, such as to a restaurant or to see a film	He's asked her out on a date.	I'm going on a date with Priseila and my bicycle is broken.
evp	date	noun	4	B1	old and no longer useful, correct or fashionable	These unemployment figures are out of date.	The library has got very poor staff and most of it is out of date.
evp	date	noun	5	B1	modern, recent or containing the latest information	Great care is taken to keep our database up to date.	Furthermore, the website is not always up to date.
evp	date	noun	6	B2	up to the present time	This is her best work to date.	I enclose a copy of my curriculum vitae, which will give you further details about my career to date.
evp	date	noun	7	C1	a sticky brown fruit with a long seed inside	I bought a box of dates.	
evp	date	verb	1	B1	to write or print the day's date on something	Thank you for your letter dated August 30th.	Dear Mrs Harris, Thank you very much for your letter dated June 7.
evp	date	verb	2	B1	to regularly spend time with someone you have a romantic relationship with	We've been dating for six months.	They were dating for a while and last month, Jim gave Maria a ring!
evp	date	verb	3	B2	to have existed a particular length of time or since a particular time	This house dates back to 1650.	Near the end of the route there's a castle that dates back to the Middle Ages, which would be really nice to visit.
evp	date	verb	4	B2	to have existed since a particular time	The castle dates from the 11th century.	The Olympic Museum dates from the 19th century and is the biggest in Europe.
evp	dated	adjective	1	C2	from a time in the past, or old-fashioned	This is dated information about the program - a lot has changed.	The books are so old and dated that it is no longer possible to use them in the classroom.
evp	daughter	noun	1	A1	your female child	Liz and Phil have a daughter and three sons.	Her daughter is 13 years old.
evp	daughter-in-law	noun	1	B2	your son's wife	I get on well with my daughter-in-law.	And do you know what, we met your daughter-in-law.
evp	dawn	noun	1	B2	the early morning when light first appears in the sky	We woke at dawn.	The other ones will work from dawn till dusk.
evp	dawn	noun	2	C1	the time when something began	the dawn of civilization	Since the dawn of time, people of all religions have considered that there is a higher power that dictates their destiny.
evp	dawn	noun	3	C2	very early in the morning	He gets up at the crack of dawn.	From the crack of dawn until bed time citizens have to breathe all kinds of gas coming out of cars, motor]bike or factor]ies
evp	dawn	verb	1	C2	If a fact dawns on you, you become aware of it after a period of not being aware of it.	It finally dawned on him that she’d been joking.	It dawned on him that for whatever the reason he was now alone in the city.
evp	day	noun	1	A1	a period of 24 hours	January has 31 days.	It will take ten days.
evp	day	noun	2	A2	the period during the day when there is light from the sun	a bright, sunny day	It is better to spend your day exploring the museums and ancient buildings in the city.
evp	day	noun	3	A2	the time that you usually spend at work or at school	a normal working day	Tuesday is my free day.
evp	day	noun	4	A2	used to talk about the present time	Vegetarianism is very popular these days.	How are you these days?
evp	day	noun	5	A2	used to talk about something that happened in the past	One day, I came home to find my windows smashed.	One day, I was reading an interesting book when someone called me.
evp	day	noun	6	B1	a few days ago	Didn't I see you in the post office the other day?	For example, the other day I stayed in my house all day watching television in bed.
evp	day	noun	7	B1	at sometime in the future	One of these days I'll tell her what really happened.	I hope one day you will come with me.
evp	day	noun	8	B1	for a long time	They haven't been seen for days.	I had to wait for days while the car was being repaired.
evp	day	noun	9	B2	used to talk about a period in the past	In those days, boys used to wear short trousers.	In those days, life was much harder than now.
evp	day	noun	10	C1	used to talk about a particular period of time when something happened or existed	in my younger days	Before the days of television, we had the radio.
evp	day	noun	11	C1	a period in the past	This place isn't as good as it was in the old days!	In the old days, a scholar could spend years of his life in search of specific information, which now can be easily and inexpensively found at the click of a button!
evp	day	noun	12	C2	to stop doing something, especially working	It's almost midnight - let's call it a day.	She decided to call it a day, so Meredith mustered all her courage and wrote a letter to him: "You are not good enough for me," she told him.
evp	day	noun	13	C2	to make someone very happy	Seeing those little kids having so much fun just made my day.	Thank you for returning my lost diary; you have made my day!
evp	day	noun	14	C2	to look old or be in bad condition because of a lot of use	This jacket has seen better days.	In the dense fog he managed to see a man standing nearby, whose clothes had definitely seen better days.
evp	day care	noun	1	C1	care provided during the day for young children or for older people who cannot look after themselves	The twins are in day care three afternoons a week.	It is not very easy for a working mother to find day care to look after her children while she is working.
evp	daydream	verb	1	C1	to have pleasant thoughts about something you like or would like to happen	She just sits in class daydreaming about her horses.	When we are young, we daydream about becoming famous.
evp	daylight	noun	1	B2	the natural light from the sun	The colors look much better in daylight.	At the same time, we could change the curtains for lighter ones because we need the daylight.
evp	daytime	noun	1	B2	the period of the day when there is light from the sun, or the period when most people are at work	I tend to sleep in/during the daytime and study at night.	There are different places to visit in the daytime.
evp	day-to-day	adjective	1	C1	happening every day as a regular part of your job or your life	the usual day-to-day problems	Unfortunately modern life is very stressful; the day-to-day office routine makes people feel very stressed and upset with their lives.
evp	dazed	adjective	1	C2	not able to think clearly because you are shocked or have hit your head	The driver seemed dazed but not badly hurt.	Their faces looked dazed.
evp	dazzle	verb	1	C2	If you are dazzled by someone or something, you think they are extremely good or exciting	I was dazzled by his intelligence and good looks.	The unique, marvellous, awe-inspiring scene can only fill you with admiration and leave you feeling stunned, dazzled by the wonders of nature.
evp	dazzle	verb	2	C2	If light dazzles someone, it makes them unable to see for a short time.	He was dazzled by the car's headlights.	Since it was the first live musical event I had been to, I was impressed by how loud the music was being played and dazzled by the lights.
evp	dazzling	adjective	1	C2	extremely good and exciting	a dazzling display/performance	The lights, the people, the atmosphere all created a dazzling spectacle where everyone was having fun and singing together, even if they didn't really know the words.
evp	dazzling	adjective	2	C2	A dazzling light is so bright that you cannot see for a short time after looking at it.	a dazzling white light	Blinded by the dazzling lights of the interior of Luton Airport, I tried very hard not to panic.
evp	dead	adjective	1	A2	not now alive	She's been dead for twenty years now.	We cut down a dead tree to keep the house warm because it was very cold.
evp	dead	adjective	2	B2	If a piece of equipment is dead, it is not working.	a dead battery	I tried to phone my sister, but the phone was dead.
evp	dead	adjective	3	C2	If a place is dead, it is too quiet and nothing interesting is happening there.	The streets of the financial district are dead after 6 p.m.	Jane was walking through the empty streets of New York. [...] The city was absolutely dead.
evp	dead	adjective	4	C2	complete	There was dead silence as the votes were counted.	When I finally got inside a terror took hold of me as there was only dead silence.
evp	dead	adjective	5	C2	to die very suddenly	He just dropped dead.	We can enjoy our longer lives because we don't have to work until we drop dead.
evp	dead	adverb	1	C1	to oppose something strongly	She was dead set against getting married.	Some others are dead set against the council's decision and provide some alternative ideas.
evp	dead	adverb	2	C2	extremely or completely	The directions were dead wrong.	However, it did require me to put in long hours daily and I usually ended up dead tired at the end of a busy day.
evp	deadline	noun	1	B2	a time or day by which something must be done	There's no way I can meet that deadline.	My last question is about the deadline of your offer.
evp	deadly	adjective	1	B2	likely to cause death	a deadly virus	Caught without cover, they were quickly eliminated by a burst of Bull's deadly machine gun.
evp	deadly	adverb	1	C1	extremely dull/serious, etc.	His speech was deadly dull.	Sports don't have to be boring and deadly serious.
evp	deaf	adjective	1	B1	unable to hear, either completely or partly	He's been totally/partially deaf since birth.	She should take care of her family, especially her deaf three-year-old daughter.
evp	deaf	adjective	2	C2	If advice or a request falls on deaf ears, people ignore it.	Our pleas for help fell on deaf ears.	His cry for help and for a more meaningful relationship between himself and Mildred invariably fell on deaf ears.
evp	deal	noun	1	B2	an agreement or an arrangement, especially in business	a business deal	"I want to make a deal with you," he went on.
evp	deal	noun	2	B2	a lot	She used to talk a great deal about her childhood in Indiana.	There will be lots of events which you could see and take a great deal of pictures of]
evp	deal	noun	3	C1	an agreement, arrangement, or situation that benefits you	I think we got a really good deal on our new car.	The possibility of getting the needed staff from our own departments is absolutely a good deal for the company.
evp	deal	verb	1	B1	to take action in order to achieve something or in order to solve a problem	How do you intend to deal with this problem?	Sorry about such a late reply, but I've had some problems to deal with.
evp	deal	verb	2	B2	to talk to someone or meet someone, especially as part of your job	She's used to dealing with difficult customers.	In my previous job, I used to deal with many, many people.
evp	dealer	noun	1	B2	a person who buys and sells a particular type of goods	a car dealer	A month ago there was a very special offer by the local VOBIS computer dealer which I could not resist.
evp	dear	adjective	1	A1	used at the beginning of a letter to greet the person you are writing to	Dear Kerry/Mom and Dad/Ms. Smith/Sir	Dear Jo, I think the new art class is on Friday.
evp	dear	adjective	2	B2	liked very much	She was a very dear friend.	I decided to go to my dear friend Mary's house after writing a letter saying where I was and why.
evp	dear	adjective	3	C2	If something is dear to someone or dear to someone's heart, it is very important to them.	The charity was very dear to his heart.	Among all the places I enjoyed visiting, the city of Singapore is especially dear to my heart.
evp	death	noun	1	B1	the end of life	a sudden/natural death	After his father's death, he didn't want to study.
evp	death	noun	2	B2	extremely bored, frightened, scared, etc.	She's scared to death of dogs.	Preparing a surprise party, her parents had almost scared her to death.
evp	death	noun	3	C2	until you die	Fire ants stung a woman to death.	She would have been trampled to death as the stampede of furious fans came over her.
evp	death	noun	4	C2	to kill someone as a punishment	The convicted murderers will be put to death.	He has become dangerous for Jack and must thus be eliminated, put to death.
evp	death	noun	5	C2	a serious situation where people could die	Getting water to these people is a matter of life and death.	I told him it was a matter of life and death.
evp	debate	noun	1	B2	(a) discussion or argument about a subject in which many people take part	Education is the current focus of public debate.	Public debates are shown on television and television is the best way for politicians to explain their actions and projects.
evp	debate	verb	1	C2	to discuss a subject in a formal way	These issues need to be debated openly.	Homelessness is a worrying issue that is being debated by most of the developed countries' governments.
evp	debit	noun	1	B2	money taken out of a bank account, or a record of this	The statement shows your most recent debits.	
evp	debit	verb	1	B2	to take money out of a bank account	Twenty dollars has been debited from my account.	
evp	debit card	noun	1	B2	a plastic card used to pay for things directly from your bank account	I use my debit card for most of my shopping.	
evp	debt	noun	1	B2	an amount of money that you owe someone	He managed to pay off his debts in two years.	She thought of getting a loan but she already had huge debts.
evp	debt	noun	2	B2	when you owe money to someone	They are in debt to the bank.	The consequence is that I'm in debt.
evp	debut	noun	1	C1	when someone performs or presents something to the public for the first time	She made her debut as a pianist in 1975.	Pavarotti's grand debut took place in the Royal Theatre of Reggio Emilia.
evp	decade	noun	1	B2	a period of ten years, especially a period such as 1860 to 1869, or 2000 to 2009		It is a question debated over the last decade whether television entertains and also educates.
evp	decaffeinated	adjective	1	C2	Decaffeinated tea or coffee is made by removing the caffeine.	Could I have a decaffeinated coffee, please?	
evp	decay	verb	1	B2	to become gradually damaged or to cause something to become gradually damaged	Sugar makes your teeth decay.	The historic buildings are starting to decay.
evp	decay	noun	1	C2	when something decays	Many of the buildings had fallen into decay.	Furthermore, by having tourism, the authorities of the country, such as the government, will be obliged to restore any monuments which have fallen into decay.
evp	deceased	adjective	1	C2	dead	the deceased man's belongings	A picture of a deceased family member brings back lots of memories.
evp	deceased	noun	1	C2	someone who has died	There will be no service, at the deceased’s request.	The deceased was a 19-year-old girl who had run away from home some months ago.
evp	deceive	verb	1	B2	to make someone believe something that is not true	The company deceived customers by selling old computers as new ones.	So if you don't want to feel deceived or offended, think twice before you decide to go shopping.
evp	December	noun	1	A1	the twelfth and last month of the year	the 23rd of December/December 23(rd)	We can see it on December 15th.
evp	decent	adjective	1	B2	of a satisfactory quality or level	He earns a decent salary.	I think it's a decent place for us to stay for a night.
evp	decent	adjective	2	B2	honest and morally good	Decent people have had their lives ruined by his behavior.	In fact, it had such a bad reputation that nobody "decent" went there any longer.
evp	deception	noun	1	C2	when you make someone believe something that is not true	He was found guilty of obtaining money by deception.	On the other hand, his deception means that he betrayed his own nation.
evp	deceptive	adjective	1	C2	If something is deceptive, it makes you believe something that is not true.	Appearances can be deceptive.	One should also remember another common, albeit wise phrase: appearances can be deceptive.
evp	decide	verb	1	A2	to choose something after thinking about several possibilities	They have to decide by next Friday.	I have decided to paint my room orange.
evp	decide	verb	2	C2	to cause something to have a particular result	This match will decide the tournament.	At any rate, science will decide whether it is better to live longer.
evp	decide	verb	3	C2	something important that helps to make the final decision	Cost was the deciding factor in choosing this builder.	Personally, I think the quality of teachers, school reputation and facilities should be the deciding factors for parents i] which schools their children should be educated in.
evp	decision	noun	1	B1	a choice that you make about something after thinking about several possibilities	She had to make some very difficult decisions.	Tell me your decision soon.
evp	decisive	adjective	1	B2	able to make decisions quickly and confidently, or showing this quality	You need to be more decisive.	They were attractive, handsome, brave and decisive men.
evp	decisive	adjective	2	C1	strongly affecting how a situation will progress or end	a decisive action/victory	Recently, our Board of Executives has taken a decisive step: from now on, our clothes will also be available for purchase on the Internet!
evp	decisively	adverb	1	C2	in a decisive way	We need to act decisively.	Putting your foot down quickly and decisively before things really get out of hand seems sensible.
evp	deck	noun	1	A2	a set of cards that you use to play a game	I brought a deck of cards so we can play on the train.	I forgot my Yu-gi-oh card deck at your house yesterday.
evp	deck	noun	2	B2	the flat area of a ship or boat that is not covered	We sat on deck until it was dark.	When I woke up and went on the deck, I saw the skipper who was coming back from the village in the small boat.
evp	declaration	noun	1	C1	a statement, often one that is written and official	a declaration of independence/war	The Spanish government has not been an exception and has tried to control pollution. Apart from taking part in world conferences and joining K[yo]to's declaration, it has also taken some measures.
evp	declare	verb	1	B1	to officially tell someone the value of goods you have bought, or the amount of money you have earned, because you might have to pay tax	Have you got anything to declare?	
evp	declare	verb	2	B2	to announce something publicly or officially	They declared their support for the proposal.	We should declare the city center a pedestrian zone.
evp	decline	verb	1	B2	to gradually become less or worse	His interest in the project declined after his wife died.	It had slightly declined to about 88 per cent in 1992.
evp	decline	verb	2	B2	to refuse politely	I invited him to the meeting but he declined.	We thank you for your offer of accommodation, but we decline it.
evp	decline	noun	1	B2	when something becomes less in amount, importance, quality or strength	industrial decline	For the 25-34 age group, a decline can be seen from 2006 to 2010.
evp	decorate	verb	1	B1	to add something to or change an object or place to make it attractive	They decorated the hall with balloons and colorful flags.	The church always is decorated with beautiful flowers and other things.
evp	decoration	noun	1	B2	something that you put on something to make it look attractive or special, or the activity of putting things on something to make it look more attractive or special	Christmas/party/table/cake decorations	When I worked at the festival, I helped out with the decorations.
evp	decorative	adjective	1	B2	made to look attractive	a decorative display of plants and flowers	It seems that the decorative role of clothes will have disappeared by the year 2050.
evp	decrease	verb	1	B1	to become less, or to make something become less	During the summer months, rainfall decreases.	The aim to satisfy different interests should not allow the quality to decrease.
evp	decrease	noun	1	B1	a reduction	There has been a steady decrease in the number of visitors.	Their yellow and black stripe has a mysterious beauty (which is the main reason for the huge decrease in the tiger population).
evp	dedicated	adjective	1	C1	believing that something is very important and giving a lot of time and energy to it	a dedicated teacher	I myself am a totally dedicated sports fan and I believe that basketball is the greatest sport on this earth.
evp	dedicated	adjective	2	C2	designed to be used for a particular purpose	The city has created hundreds of miles of dedicated bike lanes.	Apart from the occasional dedicated traffic lane, busses suffer the same congestion as other motorized traffic.
evp	dedication	noun	1	C1	when you are willing to give a lot of time and energy to something because you believe it is very important	She thanked the staff for their dedication and enthusiasm.	Sacrifice and self-denial are cornerstones, together with dedication and commitment to a good cause.
evp	deduce	verb	1	C2	to decide that something is true using the available information	From the contents of his shopping basket, I deduced that he was single.	Having considered this particular case, we may be able to deduce some of the qualities needed to be "successful."
evp	deduction	noun	1	C1	when an amount or a part of something is taken away from a total, or the amount that is taken	tax deductions	After the deduction of 5% administration expense and 10% entertainment cost, we contributed the remaining 85% of the surplus to the local hospital.
evp	deduction	noun	2	C2	when you decide something using the available information	I worked out the facts by a process of deduction.	My deductions obviously went further, and I found relie[f in thinking that neither was the story real nor had the lost diary even existed.
evp	deem	verb	1	C2	to judge or consider something in a particular way	The book was deemed appropriate for children ages six to eight.	Were it not for the fact that we regard our job as adequately paid and providing sufficient free time, it could not be deemed a satisfactory one.
evp	deep	adjective	1	A2	having a long distance from the top to the bottom	a deep river/sea/lake	That place is good for the families too, because the water is not so deep. (1980761; Skills for Life (Entry 1); ; A1 BREAKTHROUGH; 2007; Hungarian; ?)
evp	deep	adjective	2	B1	A deep color is strong and dark.	deep purple	He is tall and has got black hair and beautiful deep brown eyes.
evp	deep	adjective	3	B2	A deep feeling or experience is very strong.	deep regret	I fell into a deep depression, and took an extremely long time to recover.
evp	deep	adjective	4	B2	A deep sound is low.	a wonderfully deep voice	"I'm not Gary," a strange and deep voice answered, "I'm someone who wants to warn you that tomorrow, you are going to die."
evp	deep	adjective	5	B2	to fill your lungs with air	Take a deep breath and relax.	But if you took a deep breath after reading the question, don't worry.
evp	deep	adjective	6	B2	having a distance of 6 inches/4 feet, etc. from the top to the bottom, or from the front to the back	This end of the pool is eight feet deep.	Her father's friend, who is a professional scuba-diver, invited her to do her first immersion on the reefs, 15 meters deep.
evp	deep	adjective	7	B2	when someone is sleeping in a way that makes it difficult to wake them up	He fell into a deep sleep.	And then, he fell to a deep sleep, putting his sack next to him.
evp	deep	adjective	8	C2	serious and difficult to understand	a deep and meaningful conversation	I think we really need to go back to the classics to receive something from the deep thinkers.
evp	deep	adjective	9	C2	to make someone start a new and difficult job or activity without helping them or preparing them for it	My first job was to organize a huge conference - they really threw me in at the deep end!	Sometimes we can be thrown in at the deep end and have qualms about making a decision.
evp	deep	adjective	10	C2	giving all of your attention to what you are thinking or talking about, and not noticing anything else	I noticed that Ali and Ben were deep in conversation.	He was deep in thought, chewing on something brown and rectangular.
evp	deep	adverb	1	B1	a long way into something from the top or outside	They traveled deep into the forest.	I just fall deep into the story, into the writer's own world.
evp	deep	adverb	2	B2	If you know or feel something deep down, you are certain that it is true, or you feel it strongly although you do not admit it or show it.	Deep down, I knew that I was right.	No, because I feel deep down that it's wrong to put animals behind bars.
evp	deep	adverb	3	C2	If a feeling or a problem goes deep, it is very strong or serious and has existed for a long time.	Their commitment to this town runs deep.	
evp	deepen	verb	1	C1	if someone's knowledge or understanding deepens, it increases.	It certainly helped to deepen my understanding of the situation.	Although all the choices can contribute to deepen the knowledge of the students about languages, I think the most appropriate would be the computer room.
evp	deepen	verb	2	C2	to become worse or stronger, or to make something become worse or stronger	The economic crisis has deepened.	But as years passed and the gap between the successful and unsuccessful began to deepen, the stress rate culminated.
evp	deeply	adverb	1	B2	extremely or strongly	I'm deeply grateful to you.	I was deeply impressed by the long-term cooperation between the zoo and the school.
evp	deer	noun	1	B2	a large, wild animal that is sometimes hunted for food and has antlers (= long horns) if it is male	a deer park	It would be even nicer if there would be some wildlife in the park, like deer, walking free all over.
evp	defeat	verb	1	B1	to win a victory over someone in a fight, war or competition	Napoleon was defeated by the Duke of Wellington at the battle of Waterloo.	I still remember when Marcelo became number 1 in 1998 after he defeated Andre Agassi in the final of the "fifth Grand Slam".
evp	defeat	verb	2	B2	to cause someone or something to fail	The proposal to change the rules was narrowly defeated by 201 votes to 196.	But it was useless, Tina's friends had defeated their plan, and her.
evp	defeat	noun	1	B1	when someone loses against someone else in a fight, war or competition	After their defeat in battle, the soldiers surrendered.	The whole team will face serious problems, which may lead to big defeats.
evp	defeat	noun	2	B2	when someone or something is made to fail	The party suffered a stinging defeat in the last election.	After long negotiations with the police, Linda admitted defeat and gave up.
evp	defect	noun	1	C1	a fault or problem with someone or something	genetic defects	There are also people that are overweight and it is not their own fault, because they suffer from genetic defects.
evp	defective	adjective	1	C2	not in good condition or not working correctly	I replaced the defective light.	The electric installations are defective, some locks are broken, and the ceiling leaks. Under these conditions, it's no wonder the library has no visitors.
evp	defend	verb	1	B1	to protect someone or something from being attacked, especially by fighting	How can we defend our homeland if we don't have an army?	In the fourth one, you learn to defend yourself by doing Karate and in the last section, you could learn fencing.
evp	defend	verb	2	B2	to support someone or something that is being criticized	The newspaper's editor defended his decision to publish the photos.	Do we know a lot of people nowadays who would be able to take the risk of being a prisoner for 10 or 20 years "just" to defend his beliefs?
evp	defend	verb	3	C1	to try to show in a court that someone is not guilty of a crime	He has hired two lawyers to defend him in court.	An innocent man is arrested and the court appoints an attorney to defend him.
evp	defender	noun	1	B2	someone on a sports team who tries to prevent the other team from scoring points, goals, etc.	She's the best defender on the school's basketball team.	I'm mostly a defender, so scoring a goal for the first time gave me great pleasure!
evp	defense	noun	1	B1	protection or support against attack, criticism or infection	When Helen criticized me, Chris came/rushed to my defense.	I exploded and made quite a speech in defense of reading.
evp	defense	noun	2	B1	the part of a sports team which tries to prevent the other team from scoring points	I'm best playing defense.	They said that I'm good at defense and they want that I be in reserve for the competition.
evp	defense	noun	3	C1	the weapons and military forces that a country uses to protect itself against attack	Spending on defense / Defense spending is increasing.	The majority of the government's expenditure went to other things apart from defense, education and health.
evp	defense	noun	4	C2	the person or people in a court who are accused of doing a crime, and their lawyer	He was cross-examined by the defense.	He tried to explain that the counsel for the defense was one of the best old hands in the country but they did not even pretend to listen to him.
evp	defensive	adjective	1	C2	quick to protect yourself from being criticized	He's very defensive about his weight.	And because the traveler's own value system is challenged, he reacts in a defensive way.
evp	deficiency	noun	1	C1	a mistake or fault in something so that it is not good enough	Parents are complaining of serious deficiencies in the education system.	By studying the effects of rain and ways to handle the expected amount of water, one can plan the laying out of the new roads and correct the deficiencies in the present ones.
evp	deficiency	noun	2	C2	when you do not have enough of something	a vitamin deficiency	The baby was born with a chromosome deficiency and the specialists gave her a life expectancy of up to six months.
evp	deficit	noun	1	C1	the amount by which the money that you spend is more than the money that you receive	a budget deficit	Unfortunately, this could not be fulfilled by the government due to a huge budget deficit.
evp	define	verb	1	B2	to say exactly what something means, or what someone or something is like	In the dictionary "reality" is defined as "the state of things as they are, rather than as they are imagined to be."	I guess you would have to define the word "fit" to answer that question.
evp	definite	adjective	1	B2	certain, fixed and not likely to change	The date for the meeting - is that definite?	I'm really excited about your definite plans to come.
evp	definite article	noun	1	B1	the grammatical name for the word "the" in English, or the words in other languages which have a similar use	"The Loop," referring to the downtown area of Chicago, takes the definite article.	
evp	definitely	adverb	1	B1	without any doubt	Have you definitely decided to go to Australia?	So if I were you, I would definitely stay in the city.
evp	definitely	adverb	2	C1	used to emphasize that there is no doubt that something is not true or will not happen, or to say "no"	"Will the work be finished by June?" "Definitely not."	That's nice, but do you think that money is all that matters? Definitely not!
evp	definition	noun	1	B2	an explanation of the meaning of a word or phrase	a dictionary definition	He tried to give a definition of friendship.
evp	definition	noun	2	C1	how clear an image of something is in a photograph or on a screen	They filmed using a high-definition camera.	And, do not forget to appreciate the keyboard work from the legendary Tony Banks, and the spectacular guitar-playing from Mike Rutherford, all of them surrounded by three, huge, high-definition screens.
evp	definitive	adjective	1	C2	certain, clear, and not likely to change	a definitive answer	I know many people who offer easy and definitive answers to every question.
evp	defy	verb	1	C2	to refuse to obey someone or something	Some of these children openly defy their teachers.	Jack was the only one, or the most conspicuous of all, to defy him.
evp	defy	verb	2	C2	to be beyond what you could expect/find a category for/describe, etc.	His success has defied expectations.	The horror of those endless days, when the whole family was as if in suspension not knowing the final diagnosis, defies any description.
evp	degree	noun	1	A2	a unit for measuring temperature, shown by the symbol ° written after a number	Water boils at 212 degrees Fahrenheit and 100 degrees Celsius/centigrade.	Today it is very windy and too cold for bathing, just about 15 degrees.
evp	degree	noun	2	B1	a title of achievement given for completing a course of study at a college or university	"What is your degree in?" "Art History."	I completed my languages degree course at U.P.N University.
evp	degree	noun	3	B2	an amount or level of something	This job demands a high degree of skill.	It is quite obvious that the modern society exploits natural resources to an extremely high degree.
evp	degree	noun	4	C2	a small level or amount of something	There was some degree of truth in what she said.	Nevertheless, some degree of freedom is obviously necessary for the healthy development of a young individual.
evp	delay	verb	1	A2	to make something happen at a later time than originally planned or expected	My plane was delayed an hour.	The bus was delayed and I decided to go on foot.
evp	delay	verb	2	B1	to cause someone or something to be slow or late	I was delayed by traffic.	The roads were crowded with a lot of traffic, so I got really delayed.
evp	delay	noun	1	A2	when you have to wait longer than expected for something to happen, or the time that you have to wait	An accident caused long delays on the Interstate.	It was terrible at Heathrow airport because my flight had a delay of over two hours.
evp	delay	noun	2	B1	immediately	This problem needs to be dealt with without delay.	Anyway, as I told you I wanted to go the resort, once I had booked a room, without delay. But on my way something happened.
evp	delegate	noun	1	C1	someone who is sent somewhere to represent a group of people, especially at a meeting	The delegates were all given badges to wear.	I participated at the opening of the new arts center as a delegate from my college.
evp	delegate	verb	1	C2	to give someone else part of your work or some of your responsibilities	He needs to learn to delegate or he'll never get everything done.	Let me call him Mr. X. His success is based on various qualities of modern leadership: he delegates as much responsibility as possible to subordinates and gives them all competence to carry out their tasks.
evp	delegation	noun	1	C2	a group of people who have been chosen to represent a much larger group of people	a delegation of Chinese officials	For instance, two weeks ago I had to go to Kiev to work as a translator with a delegation at the Ukrainian Central Bank.
evp	delete	verb	1	B1	to remove something, especially from a computer's memory	All names have been deleted from the report.	I didn't take notice of the email and deleted it again.
evp	deliberate	adjective	1	B2	done intentionally or planned	a deliberate attack/insult/lie	I'm sure that his deliberate intention with this was to make us get closer.
evp	deliberately	adverb	1	B2	intentionally	I'm sure he says these things deliberately to annoy me.	Many of them choose the bicycle deliberately, just to have at least a small amount of exercise before and after the hours they spend sitting at their desks.
evp	delicate	adjective	1	B2	soft, light or gentle	a delicate flavor	She liked his delicate skin and his body's warmth.
evp	delicate	adjective	2	B2	easy to damage or break	delicate china	Although you told me I can make use of anything, I'd like to make sure that it isn't a problem to use such delicate things as the computer and the CD player?
evp	delicate	adjective	3	C1	needing to be handled with great care or skill	delicate negotiations	Being aware of the two proposals our local government is considering in order to solve the apparently unavoidable matter of traffic in our beloved city, I feel compelled to offer my views on such a delicate subject.
evp	delicate	adjective	4	C2	having a small, attractive shape	delicate hands	Suddenly a shadow moved among the trees and a surprisingly beautiful and delicate woman walked towards me.
evp	delicious	adjective	1	B1	having a very pleasant taste or smell	a delicious cake	I love it because they make delicious hamburgers.
evp	delight	noun	1	B2	(something or someone that gives) great pleasure, satisfaction or happiness	My sister's little boy is a real delight.	At midnight fireworks covered the concert hall and I, as well as the rest of the spectators, felt excitement and delight.
evp	delighted	adjective	1	B1	very pleased	We're delighted with our new house.	I've just seen your letter and I'm really delighted to have won the first prize in your competition.
evp	delightful	adjective	1	B2	very pleasant, attractive, or enjoyable	We had a delightful evening.	The staff is pleasant and the food is absolutely delightful.
evp	deliver	verb	1	B1	to take things such as goods, letters, or packages to people's houses or places of work	Express packages are delivered to our office several times a day.	I need to borrow your bicycle to deliver my father's wallet.
evp	deliver	verb	2	B2	to speak formally to a group of people	The president delivered a speech on health care.	Then, he delivered a speech to the public.
evp	deliver	verb	3	C1	to achieve or do something that you have promised to do or that people expect you to do	The company failed to deliver the high-quality service we expect.	I can also help as a team-leader to help others to deliver the right services.
evp	delivery	noun	1	B1	when things such as goods, letters, or packages are taken to people's houses or places of work	a delivery truck	I called for a delivery from Pizza Hut and after that went to study.
evp	demand	verb	1	B1	to ask for something in a way that shows that you do not expect to be refused	I demanded an explanation.	I demand a full refund or I will be forced to take this matter further.
evp	demand	verb	2	B2	to need something such as time or effort	This job demands a high level of concentration.	I would say that driving a car demands a lot of responsibility.
evp	demand	noun	1	B1	a strong request	You can't give in to children's demands all the time.	Of course only when my demands are logical.
evp	demand	noun	2	B2	a need for something to be sold or supplied	There was little demand for tickets.	I believe we have to stop the demand for ivory!
evp	demand	noun	3	C2	wanted or needed in large numbers	Good teachers are always in demand.	Many goods are not in demand because each family produces its own goods.
evp	demanding	adjective	1	B2	needing a lot of time, attention or energy	She's a very demanding child.	Although the job was demanding I enjoyed it.
evp	democracy	noun	1	B2	a system of government in which people elect their leaders, or a country with this system	The early 1990s saw the spread of democracy in Eastern Europe.	From then on it represented democracy and freedom until Hitler took over power in January 1933.
evp	democratic	adjective	1	B2	based on the principles of democracy	We must accept the results of a democratic election.	If we regard ourselves as modern people, we must be democratic enough to release them.
evp	demolish	verb	1	B2	to completely destroy a building, especially in order to use the land for something else	A number of houses were demolished so that the supermarket could be built.	The building was demolished, and so was the dream of a house of their own.
evp	demonstrate	verb	1	B2	to show or prove that something exists or is true	These problems demonstrate the importance of strategic planning.	The results were amazing, the group managed to demonstrate that the learning capacity increased a lot with respect to traditional methods.
evp	demonstrate	verb	2	B2	to march or stand with a group of people to show that you disagree with or support someone or something	Thousands of people gathered to demonstrate against the war.	Maybe the RSPCA should demonstrate, to show that it's not accept]able We have to stand up for their rights!
evp	demonstrate	verb	3	C1	to show something and explain how it works	The teacher demonstrated how to use the equipment.	I could demonstrate to people how to create compost pits and use kitchen waste to generate compost for their gardens.
evp	demonstrate	verb	4	C2	to express or show that you have a feeling, quality, or ability	He has demonstrated a genuine interest in the project.	As a result, he does not allow himself to demonstrate any emotion apart from anger.
evp	demonstration	noun	1	B2	when a group of people march or stand together to show that they disagree with or support something or someone	The students are holding a demonstration to protest against higher tuition.	There were many demonstrations and violence.
evp	demonstration	noun	2	C1	showing how to do something, or how something works	Let me give you a demonstration of how the camera works.	Some of our workers will give you a demonstration on how they produce, step-by-step, some of the world's best-known rings and necklaces.
evp	demonstration	noun	3	C1	proof that something exists or is true	This disaster is a clear demonstration of the need for tighter controls.	Most women are now allowed to wear pants and this is a demonstration of the change of their role in society throughout the years.
evp	denial	noun	1	C2	when you say that something is not true	a denial of his guilt	Although everyone past forty claims to be relieved not to be twenty anymore, most of them miss the excitement of the days when everything was less serious, when fun was a top priority and responsibilities lost somewhere close to denial.
evp	denim	noun	1	B2	thick, strong, cotton cloth, often blue in color, used especially for making jeans	a denim jacket and jeans	If you have time to go shopping you could buy me a pair of blue denim jeans.
evp	dense	adjective	1	B2	thick and difficult to see through	dense fog	"Don't be afraid and don't run" shouted someone from the dense forest.
evp	densely	adverb	1	B2	with a lot of things close together	We waited in a densely packed room.	It's densely populated and with that the ugliness of densely populated places follows.
evp	density	noun	1	C1	the number of people or things in a place when compared with the size of the place	The area has a high population density.	However, the factors of population density and transport systems in some regions must not be ignored during this analysis.
evp	dental	adjective	1	B2	relating to the teeth	dental care	For example, they will have checks, dental checks regularly to maintain healthy bodies.
evp	dentist	noun	1	A2	someone who examines and repairs teeth	You should have your teeth checked by a dentist at least twice a year.	She is a dentist and can speak several languages.
evp	deny	verb	1	B2	to say that something is not true	Neil denies that he broke the window, but I'm sure he did.	We cannot deny that technology has changed our lives.
evp	deny	verb	2	B2	to not allow someone to have or do something	Her request for time off work was denied.	Should wild animals be kept in cages, and denied their freedom so that we can have the pleasure of watching them at zoos?
evp	deodorant	noun	1	C1	a substance that you put on your body to prevent or hide unpleasant smells	I always use deodorant.	On the other hand, men require regular supplies of shaving lotions, shampoo, deodorant, and many more things too.
evp	depart	verb	1	B1	to go away or leave, especially on a journey	The plane departs at 6.00 a.m.	The boat departs from King's Bridge.
evp	department	noun	1	A2	a part of an organization such as a school, business or government which deals with a particular area of study or work	the African Studies department/the department of African Studies	Then we went down to the Design and Technology department and the English department.
evp	department store	noun	1	A2	a large shop divided into several different parts, each of which sells different things		First we'll go to May's department store, because things are so cheap there]
evp	departure	noun	1	B1	when someone or something leaves a place, especially to start a journey to another place	There are four departures daily to Albany from Rochester.	Now I am just waiting for the day of departure.
evp	dependence	noun	1	C2	when you need someone or something all the time in order to exist or continue	Our society needs to reduce its dependence on the car.	The dependence on oil is a menace because oil reserves will disappear and because at this time we have no other invention to replace it.
evp	dependent	adjective	1	B2	needing the support of something or someone in order to continue existing or operating	He has three dependent children.	If I went to school by car I would be dependent on my father.
evp	dependent	adjective	2	C1	influenced by or decided by something	The amount of tax you pay is dependent on your income.	Almost every possible requirement of a human life from cradle to grave is vastly dependent on availability of money.
evp	depict	verb	1	C2	to represent someone or something in a picture or story	The cartoon depicts the president as a vampire.	A picture depicts an image that allows us different feelings, depending on the moment and the sensations we experienced while the picture was shot.
evp	deposit	noun	1	B1	a payment of part of the total cost of something that you want to buy and will finish paying for later	They've put down a deposit on a house.	How many days in advance do we have to make our reservation? I also wonder if there is a deposit that we have to pay.
evp	deposit	noun	2	C1	an amount of money that you put into a bank account	to make a deposit	Now, you can make a deposit, have a record of your expenses, transfer funds from one account to another and even pay your credit card .
evp	deposit	noun	3	C1	an amount of money that you pay when you rent something, and that is given back to you when you return it without any damage	Did you get your deposit back?	Further development of the concept of the "City Bi[k]e", a bike that anyone can borrow for free, leaving a small deposit, is recommended.
evp	deposit	noun	4	C2	a layer of a substance that has developed from a natural or chemical process	deposits of iron ore	When these foods are taken in excess quantities, the digestive system converts the bits that are useful to the body and the rest are stored as fat deposits in different parts of the body.
evp	deposit	verb	1	C1	to put money into a bank or valuable things into a safe place	She deposited $150,000 in a Swiss bank account.	The excess of any allowance was deposited in]t a piggy bank.
evp	depressed	adjective	1	B1	unhappy and without hope for the future	He seemed a bit depressed about work.	I felt depressed and decided to go to live in another city.
evp	depressed	adjective	2	C2	A depressed country, area, or economy does not have enough jobs or business activity.	an economically depressed area	Our area is getting closer to a depressed area rather than a peaceful and nice one.
evp	depressing	adjective	1	B2	making you feel unhappy and without hope for the future	I find this weather so depressing.	It was really depressing, seeing people drinking and having fun when I just had to work.
evp	depression	noun	1	B2	when you feel very unhappy, or a mental illness that makes you feel very unhappy and anxious for long periods	If you suffer from depression, it's best to get professional help.	Some people think that going shopping can keep you away from depression.
evp	depression	noun	2	C2	a time when there is not much business activity	The stock market crash marked the start of a severe depression.	We are just coming out of a financial depression, and companies have had to lay off thousands of people.
evp	deprivation	noun	1	C2	the state of not having enough of something	sleep deprivation	Often it has been seen that children suffering from extreme deprivation in their childhood can become deviant as they grow up.
evp	deprive	verb	1	B2	to take something, especially something necessary or pleasant, away from someone	He claimed that he had been deprived of his freedom/rights.	We shouldn't deprive our music fans of this wonderful event, that can only enrich our city's cultural life.
evp	deprived	adjective	1	C1	not having enough food, money, or other things that you need to have a normal life	He took pictures in deprived areas of the city.	It is true that possibly, because of a deprived childhood in which every purchase had to be considered carefully, a person learns to manage his finances.
evp	depth	noun	1	B1	the distance down either from the top of something to the bottom, or to a distance below the top surface of something	the depth of a lake/pond	But suddenly Laura did not feel any fear anymore and within a second she jumped into the air and fell into the endless depth of the Grand Canyon.
evp	depth	noun	2	B2	when you have serious qualities or the ability to think seriously about something	Terry lacks depth - he's a very superficial person.	I think that the main reason why someone has to read this book twice is the strength and depth of the two main characters: Donald Woods and Steve Biko.
evp	depth	noun	3	B2	in a very detailed way	With access to the Internet, students can research their topics in greater depth.	I would love to learn English in more depth during the summer.
evp	depth	noun	4	C2	how much someone knows or feels about something	She was amazed at the depth of his knowledge.	More and more people seem to take refuge in the depth of his philosophy now.
evp	depth	noun	5	C2	not having the knowledge, experience, or skills to deal with a particular subject or situation	When they start talking about philosophy, I'm completely out of my depth.	It was my first day of school. What I can remember is that I really felt out of my depth: my parents were so happy that I couldn't succeed in telling them that I was terribly frightened and that the only thing that I wanted was my doll.
evp	deputy	noun	1	C1	someone who has the second most important job in an organization	the deputy chairman/editor	If you would like to have a teacher on your side, for general questions, I would propose our deputy principal Mr. Brown.
evp	descend	verb	1	B2	to go or come down	The path descended steeply into the valley.	Paul slowly descended to the river and sat down on the grassy bank.
evp	descend	verb	2	C2	to be related to a person or group of people who lived in the past	Her father is descended from Greek royalty.	It is to say that the proprietor descends from an important family of cooks and that he knows all the secrets of ancient home-made dishes.
evp	descendant	noun	1	C2	someone who is related to someone who lived a long time ago	We are New Yorkers and the descendants of Chinese immigrants.	Someone born poor in the country will never have a chance to heighten his social status, and generations later, his descendants will be poor as well.
evp	describe	verb	1	A2	to say or write what someone or something is like	Can you describe your bag?	I would like to describe the food from my country.
evp	description	noun	1	B1	something that tells you what something or someone is like	Write a description of your favorite vacation spot.	Here's a description of my bedroom]
evp	desert	noun	1	A2	a large, hot, dry area of land with very few plants	the Sahara Desert	It's an interesting place because, it is carrying the water from the desert to the center of the city.
evp	deserted	adjective	1	C1	If a place is deserted, it has no people in it.	a deserted street	The park, which is situated in the northern part of Koropi, used to be a quiet, peaceful, almost deserted area.
evp	deserve	verb	1	B1	If you deserve something good or bad, it should happen to you because of the way you have behaved.	After all that hard work, you deserve a holiday.	I wish you happiness, you deserve it.
evp	design	noun	1	B1	the way in which something is planned and made	I don't like the design of this kettle.	I was looking to find a good bicycle with a nice design.
evp	design	noun	2	B1	the art of making plans or drawings for something	She's an expert on kitchen/software design.	You know that my subject is design.
evp	design	noun	3	B1	a pattern or decoration	a floral design	Last year I made and sold more than 200 pairs of knitted socks and because of that I got a prize from The Swedish Handcraft Company for the wonderful and original design on my socks.
evp	design	noun	4	C1	a drawing which shows how an object, machine, or building will be made	Engineers are working on the new designs.	To finish some of your designs on time you could take them home and continue them there or you could work for longer in your office.
evp	design	verb	1	B1	to draw or plan something before making it	Who designed this building/dress/furniture?	It was built in 1570 and designed by the Italian architect Morando.
evp	design	verb	2	B2	to have been planned or done for a particular purpose	This dictionary is designed for learners of English.	The end-of-conference party is designed to give rough ideas about many different cultures.
evp	designer	noun	1	B1	someone who draws and plans how something will be made	a fashion/software designer	After five months, she was working as a co-designer with the best Italian designer, although she was just a student.
evp	designer	adjective	1	B2	made by a famous or fashionable designer	designer jeans/sunglasses	People like designer clothes like Armani, Chanel and so on.
evp	desirable	adjective	1	B2	worth having and wanted by most people	Reducing class sizes in schools is a desirable aim.	It is desirable that they include showers, although a bath tub would be nice, too.
evp	desire	noun	1	B2	a strong feeling that you want something	I really have no desire for wealth.	I think this is the right job I was looking for because it is an opportunity to travel to the USA, which is my great desire.
evp	desire	verb	1	C1	to want something	You can have whatever you desire.	Indeed, the location of this hotel will allow all of us to do whatever we desire.
evp	desk	noun	1	A1	a type of table that you can work at, often one with drawers	an office/school desk	There is a television, a stereo, a computer, a big bed and a desk with a chair.
evp	desktop	noun	1	B2	a computer screen that contains icons that represent files, programs and other features of the computer	A shortcut to the program will be created on your desktop.	
evp	desktop	noun	2	B2	a computer that fits on the top of a desk but is too large to carry around	I can download e-mail from my desktop to my smartphone.	The computer I bought is a beautiful, new, white desktop.
evp	despair	noun	1	B2	a feeling of having no hope	a mood/sense of despair	Almost in despair, I came out of the bathroom and tried my best to look for a candle.
evp	desperate	adjective	1	B2	extremely worried or frightened and ready to do anything to change the bad situation you are in	The doctors made one last desperate attempt/effort to save the boy's life.	I was almost desperate, trying to think about any possible solution to my problem, but the more I thought, the bigger was my problem, because hours went by.
evp	desperate	adjective	2	B2	needing or wanting something very much	She was desperate to get news of her family.	I am really desperate to share my hobby with somebody as nobody I know is interested in my work.
evp	desperate	adjective	3	C2	very serious or bad	The earthquake survivors are in desperate need of help.	In desperate situations one may even think that our only task in this world is to face and try to overcome everyday problems.
evp	desperately	adverb	1	B2	extremely or very much	He was desperately ill.	I desperately need a bicycle as a bicycle competition is going to take place in our city.
evp	desperately	adverb	2	B2	in a way that shows you are frightened and ready to try anything to change a situation	They fought desperately for their lives.	He desperately tried to keep the stalking sharks at bay, but he couldn't succeed.
evp	desperation	noun	1	C2	the state of being desperate	I was overcome by a sense of desperation.	Many are driven to desperation and turn to stealing to survive.
evp	dessert	noun	1	A2	sweet food eaten after the main part of a meal	For dessert there's apple pie, cheesecake or fruit.	I always order a t-bone steak with salad, and for dessert a piece of chocolate cake.
evp	destination	noun	1	B1	the place where someone or something is going	We arrived at our destination tired and hungry.	The journey to the destination lasted about an hour.
evp	destiny	noun	1	C1	the things that will happen to someone in the future	At last she feels in control of her own destiny.	It was our parents' destiny, it is our destiny and is going to be our children's destiny, too.
evp	destiny	noun	2	C1	a power that some people believe controls what will happen in the future	Nick said it was destiny that we met.	If anybody ever asked me if I believed in destiny, I would hesitate.
evp	destroy	verb	1	B1	to damage something so badly that it does not exist or cannot be used	Most of the old part of the city was destroyed by bombs during the war.	The film described a terrible period of our history when a lot of people died and a lot of cities were destroyed.
evp	destruction	noun	1	B2	when something is destroyed	Many people are very concerned about the destruction of the rainforests.	It can be a solution to avoid the concentration of pollution and consequently avoid the destruction of the buildings.
evp	detached	adjective	1	C2	separate and not joined or connected to another part, building, etc.	Their new house has a detached garage.	Its use in eye surgery began with a discovery, that it could help to repair a detached retina (of which existence Dr. Townes had never heard before).
evp	detached	adjective	2	C2	If someone is detached, they do not feel involved with someone or emotional about something.	As a nurse, I see some very distressing things, but I try to stay detached.	Whereas Olivia was very much attracted by and interested in India's mysteries, Douglas had a much more detached view of India.
evp	detailed	adjective	1	B2	giving a lot of information	A witness gave a detailed description of the man.	We ran until we arrived at the police station where we gave a detailed description of that man and what had happened.
evp	detect	verb	1	C1	to discover or notice something, especially something that is difficult to see, hear, smell, etc.	Some sounds cannot be detected by the human ear.	The kind of contamination that can be detected and observed most easily is the air pollution.
evp	detective	noun	1	B1	someone, especially a police officer, whose job is to discover information about a crime	a private detective	I know that you love detective stories.
evp	deteriorate	verb	1	C1	to become worse	Her condition deteriorated rapidly.	Otherwise, the situation will deteriorate more and more.
evp	determination	noun	1	B2	when someone continues trying to do something, although it is very difficult	Andy Murray will need great determination and skill to win this match.	Mandela tried to better the political situation of South Africa [-] he was strong enough to fight, he had determination.
evp	determine	verb	1	C1	to discover the facts or truth about something	The doctors are still unable to determine what is wrong.	Our feelings about the issue led our class to direct a survey among local residents in Fordham, in order to determine statistically how often the latter use Greendale Park.
evp	determine	verb	2	C1	to decide what will happen	Her test scores will determine which class she is assigned to.	It considers the reasons for these developments and highlights the trends which will determine the future of the job market.
evp	determined	adjective	1	B2	wanting to do something very much, and not letting anyone stop you	I'm determined to get this piece of work finished today.	I am determined to study computer engineering and pursue my education overseas.
evp	determiner	noun	1	B2	in grammar, a word which is used before a noun to show which particular example of the noun you are referring to	In the phrases "my first boyfriend" and "that strange woman," the words "my" and "that" are determiners.	
evp	deterrent	noun	1	C2	something that stops people doing something because they are afraid of what will happen if they do	They've installed a security camera as a deterrent to thieves.	I also think that the assistance that the state provides acts as a deterrent in the sense that, in Britain for example, the income support or family credit can actually be higher than what some people can earn in a week of hard work: so, what is the point of working?
evp	detrimental	adjective	1	C2	harmful or damaging	a detrimental effect	This could have a detrimental effect on our city and, to be more specific, on tourism.
evp	devastated	adjective	1	C1	very shocked and upset	She was devastated when her husband died.	To begin with, everyone was devastated at how long we had to wait at the airport, as the flight to Dublin was late.
evp	devastating	adjective	1	C1	making someone very shocked and upset	Despite the devastating news, no one is giving up hope.	It can be really devastating for such a person to experience it.
evp	devastating	adjective	2	C2	causing a lot of damage or destruction	The fire has had a devastating effect on the local wildlife.	We are all aware of the devastating impact that factories have on the environment, not to mention the cars whose numbers multiply day-by-day.
evp	devastation	noun	1	C2	serious damage caused by a violent event	The tornado has already left a trail of devastation through four states from Nebraska to Missouri.	As you might know, this is one of the few green areas that has survived the devastation suffered by our town during the past five years.
evp	develop	verb	1	B1	to (cause something to) grow or change and become more advanced	The baby develops inside the mother for nine months.	Therefore it's an important tool that is used to develop new friendships.
evp	develop	verb	2	B1	to make something new such as a product	Scientists are developing new drugs all the time.	With more free time we can develop new technology, learn more about ourselves and the world that surrounds us.
evp	develop	verb	3	B2	If you develop an illness or problem, or if it develops, you start to suffer from it.	The study showed that one in twelve women is likely to develop breast cancer.	They often developed the same symptoms as can be seen among mentally disturbed human beings.
evp	develop	verb	4	C2	to start to happen or exist	Further problems may develop if you do not deal with this now.	But it's not only financial problems which can develop as a result of more people living longer in a society.
evp	developed	adjective	1	B2	describes a country or region of the world with an advanced level of technology, industry, etc.	a developed country/nation	To conclude I would like to say that the governments of all developed countries wouldn't have been so concerned about the so-called "problem 2000" if the computer had not been so important for modern society.
evp	developer	noun	1	C1	someone whose job is to create new products, especially computer products such as software	We mostly use developers based in India.	For example, we may have the top website developers in China, but quite often their skills are restrict]e by poor IT infrastructures.
evp	developer	noun	2	C2	someone who buys land or buildings to improve them and sell them for more money	All the land was bought up by developers.	I figured it out that the landlord would sell sooner or later to make a profit, since he is a property developer.
evp	developing	adjective	1	B2	describes a country or region of the world which is poor and has few industries	the developing world/countries/nations	Nowadays, both developed and developing countries spend a lot of money on computerization.
evp	development	noun	1	B1	when someone or something grows or changes and becomes more advanced	healthy growth and development	There are some machines which have helped in my development, and others which help to make my life easier.
evp	development	noun	2	B1	the process of developing something new	the development of new drugs	Owing to the great speed of technological development, people need to lead a faster life.
evp	development	noun	3	B2	something new that happens and changes a situation	an important development in the fuel crisis	There have been impressive developments in technology lately.
evp	development	noun	4	C2	when something starts to happen or exist	New vacccines may prevent the development of some cancers.	The aims taken into account i] the establishment of the "Health fund" are varied and cover different areas such as the education of the general public on the issues of health itself, and the threat posed by the development of cancer and Aids, etc.
evp	device	noun	1	B2	a piece of equipment that is used for a particular purpose	an electronic device	I have much more time for many other things during the day thanks to the devices modern technology offers us.
evp	device	noun	2	C2	to leave someone to do what they want to do	With both parents out at work, the kids were often left to their own devices.	The moment teenagers leave school, they are left to their own devices.
evp	devil	noun	1	B2	an evil being, often represented in human form but with a tail and horns		This film is about a devil who meets a priest.
evp	devil	noun	2	C2	someone who behaves badly	He's an absolute devil!	It must be with my younger brother, that little devil, Diana thought, so she went to his room and opened every drawer, but she could find nothing.
evp	devise	verb	1	C2	to design or invent something such as a system, plan, idea, piece of equipment, etc.	She devised a plan to make money.	On the other hand, I can't devise on the spot the job that would give you all the above-mentioned things, i.e., money and job satisfaction, and leave you plenty of free time simultaneously.
evp	devoted	adjective	1	B2	extremely loving or caring very much about someone or something	a devoted fan/husband/wife	I am devoted to reading and I can say this book is wonderful.
evp	diagnose	verb	1	C2	to say what is wrong with someone who is ill	She was diagnosed with cancer last year.	I wasn't prepared at all when my parents sat me down to tell me that my mother had been diagnosed with cancer.
evp	diagnosis	noun	1	C2	when a doctor says what is wrong with someone who is ill	What's the diagnosis?	Lung cancer was the diagnosis.
evp	diagram	noun	1	B1	a simple picture showing what something looks like or explaining something	The teacher drew a diagram showing how the blood flows through the heart.	The diagram shows the system of production by which bricks are produced for the building industry.
evp	dial	verb	1	B1	to make a telephone call to a particular number	Can I dial this number direct, or do I have to go through the operator?	Wouldn't it be better to prepare the shopping list instead of dialing home to ask which salad to buy.
evp	dialect	noun	1	C2	a form of a language that people speak in a particular part of a country	They're speaking a local dialect.	Mrs Haefele, the owner and cook of this inn, serves the meals personally and if you are lucky, you may understand a bit of her Swabian dialect.
evp	dialogue	noun	1	B2	(a) conversation that is written for a book, play, movie, etc.	The play contained some very funny dialogue.	However, she shows her courage during her first dialogue with Joss.
evp	dialogue	noun	2	C2	a formal discussion between countries or groups of people	We need to enter into a dialogue with these people.	The way I see it, history has proven that authority without dialogue leads to rebellion, and I do not see rebellion as a way to improvement, but as a symbol of failure.
evp	diamond	noun	1	B2	an extremely hard valuable stone which is used in jewelry, and in industry for cutting hard things	a diamond ring/necklace	She found a gorgeous diamond ring on her finger.
evp	diamond	noun	2	B2	a shape with four straight sides of equal length, forming two opposite angles which are wide and two which are narrow	Joe's socks had diamond patterns on them.	
evp	diarrhea	noun	1	C2	an illness in which your solid waste is more liquid than usual, and comes out of your body more often	She has diarrhea.	In the end, however, we need to listen to our own body and make sure that the nutrition suggested by nutritionists and doctors is also accepted by our metabolism, i.e., not greeted with diarrhea, nausea, etc.
evp	diary	noun	1	A2	a book in which a person writes a private record of events, thoughts, feelings, etc.	I write down my thoughts in my diary every night.	The best one is a diary: my aunt gave it to me. It like it because I can write my feelings in it.
evp	dice	noun	1	C2	two small objects each with six equal square sides that have between one and six spots on them, used in games	Roll the dice to see who starts the game.	The dice were rolling and my luck was i]n
evp	dice	verb	1	C2	to cut food into small, square pieces	diced onions	There are trays of cut lettuce, leaf lettuce, cut tomato, diced tomato, all kinds of relishes, cheese with bacon spread, barbecue, or whatever you like.
evp	dictate	verb	1	C1	to decide or control what happens	The weather will dictate where we hold the party.	Since the dawn of time people of all religions have considered that there is a higher power that dictates their destiny.
evp	dictionary	noun	1	A1	a book that contains a list of words in alphabetical order with their meanings explained or written in another language, or a similar product for use on a computer	a French-English/English-French dictionary	Andrew, I think I left my new dictionary in your house last night.
evp	die	verb	1	A1	to stop living or existing	Twelve people died in the accident.	The pen is very important for me because my grandfather gave it to me before he died.
evp	die	verb	2	B1	to be extremely eager to have or do something	I'm dying to hear your news.	Now I have to leave you because I'm dying for a pizza!
evp	die	verb	3	C2	If something, especially noise or excitement, dies down, it gradually becomes less loud or strong until it stops.	She waited for the laughter to die down before she spoke.	Even the best materials wouldn't be able to avoid the deafening noise which does not ever die down.
evp	die	verb	4	B2	to become more and more rare and then disappear completely	Dinosaurs died out about 65 million years ago.	A second point is that a lot of animals are going to die out because of pollution.
evp	diesel	noun	1	C1	fuel used in the engines of some vehicles, especially buses and trucks, or a vehicle that uses this fuel	My new car uses diesel.	I think that our government should spend more money to find other sources of fuel, which could replace the diesel and gas.
evp	diet	noun	1	B1	the type of food that someone usually eats	a healthy/balanced diet	You can try our fresh farm food, which is very good for your diet.
evp	diet	noun	2	B1	when someone eats less food, or only particular types of food, because they want to become thinner or for medical reasons	I'm going on a diet next week and hope to lose five pounds before Christmas.	I'm on a serious diet, and I have to exercise.
evp	differ	verb	1	B2	to be not like something or someone else, either physically or in another way	The twins look alike, but they differ in other ways.	People's opinions on this matter differ widely.
evp	difference	noun	1	A2	the way in which two people or things are not the same	What's the difference between an ape and a monkey?	I will not find the same one and of course John will notice the difference.
evp	difference	noun	2	B1	the amount by which one thing is different from another	a(n) age/price/temperature difference	This age difference was too big!
evp	difference	noun	3	B2	to improve a situation (a lot)	Exercise can make a big difference to your health.	It wouldn't make a big difference in my life, but it would be good.
evp	difference	noun	4	B2	to not be important or change a situation	You can ask him again if you like, but it won't make any difference - he'll still say no.	Does it make any difference, some might ask?
evp	difference	noun	5	C1	to notice a difference between two things	I can't tell the difference between an American and a Canadian accent.	Not only will their critical sense atrophy but also they will not be able to tell the difference between what is right and wrong.
evp	difference	noun	6	C2	a disagreement or different opinion	They must try to resolve their differences peacefully.	Music has also the power to unite people, to make them forget their negative feelings and to make them forget their differences.
evp	different	adjective	1	A1	not the same	She seems to wear something different every day.	My friends gave me different gifts.
evp	different	adjective	2	B1	used to talk about separate things or people of the same type	I had to go to three different bookstores to find that book she wanted.	I have three different teachers for three different things, one for the grammar, an]othe for the listening and finally one for my writing.
evp	differentiate	verb	1	C1	to understand or notice how two things or people are different from each other	He can't differentiate between blue and green.	The person would learn how to differentiate his needs from his wants and would value hard work.
evp	differentiate	verb	2	C2	to make someone or something different	We need to differentiate ourselves from the competition.	Consumerism is reflected through this need, leading to a non-stop purchasing of products and services which will differentiate us from the mass.
evp	differently	adverb	1	B1	in a different way	We want to do things differently.	I had always pictured it quite differently.
evp	difficult	adjective	1	A1	when something is not easy to do or understand	a difficult problem/choice/task	This book is very important because I have a difficult exam next Friday.
evp	difficult	adjective	2	B1	not friendly or easy to deal with	The manager is difficult to deal with/a difficult person to deal with.	I'm not a difficult person and I can cook very well]
evp	difficult	adjective	3	C1	to cause someone to be in a difficult situation	When two of your best friends argue it puts you in a very difficult position.	I know that I will put you in a difficult position with my absence but I must leave.
evp	difficulty	noun	1	B1	when something is not easy to do or understand	We finished the job, but only with great difficulty.	They would have difficulty in sleeping outdoors.
evp	difficulty	noun	2	B2	something that is not easy to deal with	financial difficulties	As you know my family has financial difficulties and we can't afford this.
evp	dig	verb	1	B1	to break up and move soil using a tool, a machine or your hands	Digging (in) the garden is good exercise.	I started digging, but it was useless.
evp	dig	verb	2	B2	to form a hole by moving soil	The tunnel was dug with the aid of heavy machinery.	I was ready to dig a hole and jump into it, because when you are at that age and your best friend's father sees you kissing your boyfriend in the dark, it is just the most embarrassing thing which can happen to you.
evp	digest	verb	1	C1	to change food in your stomach into substances that your body can use	I need some time to digest my dinner.	Most families are also trying to eat a bit less meat, because meat is very hard to digest.
evp	digest	verb	2	C1	to think about new information carefully in order to understand it	You need to give me time to digest this report.	Also I found the lectures about how to write CVs very useful although if the groups were smaller, it would have made the information easier to digest.
evp	digestion	noun	1	C1	when your body changes food in your stomach into substances that it can use	He has problems with digestion.	They do not spend time preparing and eating the food and that is not very good for the digestion process.
evp	digital	adjective	1	A2	using an electronic system that changes sounds or images into signals in the form of numbers before it stores them or sends them	digital data	It has amazing digital effects.
evp	digital	adjective	2	B1	showing information in the form of an electronic image	a digital clock/display	The alarm clock was flashing with the annoying digital zeros.
evp	digital camera	noun	1	A2	a type of camera that records images that you can use and store on a computer	These days almost everyone uses a digital camera.	I got lots of gifts, including a digital camera!
evp	dignified	adjective	1	C2	calm, serious, and behaving in a way that makes people respect you	a quiet, dignified woman	In the book "The remains of the day" we get to know the very dignified butler, Stevens, and his relationship with Miss Kenton.
evp	dignity	noun	1	C2	calm and serious behavior that makes people respect you	He behaved with great dignity and courage.	He is a caring person with a sense of responsibility and dignity.
evp	dilemma	noun	1	B2	a situation in which a difficult choice has to be made between two different things you could do	The President is clearly in a dilemma about/over how to tackle the crisis.	Actually I think it's a typical female dilemma: we try to do many things by ourselves and at the same time!
evp	dim	adjective	1	C2	not bright or clear	He could hardly see her in the dim light.	As well as such drawbacks, the lighting is too dim to browse around and some light tubes are permanently off.
evp	dim	adjective	2	C2	when you can remember something slightly, but not very well	I have a dim memory of meeting her at a party.	I really regret having lost it for now I have only dim recollections of my past.
evp	dim	verb	1	C2	to become less bright, or to make something become less bright	He dimmed the lights and turned up the music.	The light was carefully dimmed by the waiter as they ordered their food: they both chose their special enchiladas.
evp	dime	noun	1	C1	a US or Canadian coin with a value of 10 cents	Can I borrow a dime - the machine only takes coins.	
evp	dimension	noun	1	B2	a particular part of a situation, especially something that affects how you think or feel	Music has added a new dimension to my life.	I had never felt this way before, it was like being part of another life, another dimension!
evp	dimension	noun	2	B2	a measurement of the length, width, or height of something	The dimensions of the photo should be no larger than 30cm by 20cm.	Also I want to take a big mirror, the dimensions are 0.70 x 1.20 m.
evp	diminish	verb	1	C1	to become less, or to make something become less	Your pain should diminish gradually over the next two or three hours.	As one student I've asked said, if we manage to keep cars out of town, air pollution will considerably diminish.
evp	dining room	noun	1	A1	a room in which meals are eaten	We ate in the dining room.	I think I left it in the dining room.
evp	dinner	noun	1	A1	the main meal of the day that people usually eat in the evening	We were just having (our) dinner.	I can come to dinner tomorrow at 7 o'clock.
evp	dinosaur	noun	1	A2	a very large animal that used to live millions of years ago	So why did the dinosaurs die out?	It was attacked by an enormous dinosaur and died.
evp	dip	verb	1	B2	to put something into a liquid for a short time	Dip the fish in the batter, then drop it into the hot oil.	I recommend little sandwiches, chips and other things to dip into sauces]
evp	dip	verb	2	B2	to become lower in level or amount	The number of students taking classes in the sciences has dipped sharply.	
evp	diploma	noun	1	A2	an official document showing that someone has completed a course of study	a high school/college diploma	My best present was a diploma from the University of Cambridge.
evp	diplomacy	noun	1	C2	dealing with the relationships between governments	international diplomacy	I studied International Relations and Diplomacy.
evp	diplomacy	noun	2	C2	skill in dealing with people well and not upsetting them	She showed great tact and diplomacy in the meeting.	And if a dispute arose, he managed to solve it with great diplomacy and with the result that nobody in the end felt offended.
evp	diplomat	noun	1	B2	an official whose job is to represent one country in another, and who usually works in an embassy	a Spanish/British diplomat	The owner of the restaurant was a diplomat, and he invited the refugees to eat at the restaurant.
evp	diplomatic	adjective	1	C1	relating to diplomacy or diplomats	diplomatic relations	The price has been arranged by the Argentine and English Governments, that have now entered diplomatic relations.
evp	diplomatic	adjective	2	C2	good at dealing with people without upsetting them	That's a very diplomatic answer.	We may have to be diplomatic and tactful, but we also must be honest and firm.
evp	diplomatically	adverb	1	C2	in a way that deals well with people without upsetting them	He phrased his question very diplomatically.	Even though this issue is usually settled diplomatically, there still remains a considerable amount of criticism to be faced.
evp	direct	adjective	1	B1	going straight from one place to another without stopping or changing direction	a direct route/line	I'm looking for a direct flight from Zurich to Botswana.
evp	direct	adjective	2	B2	with no other person or thing involved or between	She decided to take direct control of the project.	I think that there are huge dangers today such as war, violence, crime, pollution, etc. that have a direct influence on our lives.
evp	direct	adjective	3	C1	saying clearly and honestly what you think	a direct answer	He preferred to give me a hint rather than a direct answer.
evp	direct	verb	1	B1	to tell the actors in a film or play what to do	He wanted to give up acting and start directing (his own films).	We plan to see an action film which was directed by Tarantino.
evp	direct	verb	2	B1	to show or tell someone how to get to a place	Can you direct me to the manager's office please?	He directed me to a room where other guests were waiting.
evp	direct	verb	3	C1	to aim something at someone or something	His criticism was directed at everybody who disagreed with him.	In these circumstances it is important, however, that alternative options are provided (e.g., efficient and affordable train services) and that economic measures (such as increased prices) are directed at those who really cause the most environmental costs.
evp	direct	verb	4	C1	to organize and control the way something is done	He directed the building of the new art gallery.	Obviously they will work in the commercial department, under the supervision of Lorenzo Soboli, the person who is in charge of directing that section.
evp	direction	noun	1	B1	the way that someone or something is moving or facing	"No, go that way," I said, pointing in the opposite direction.	I walked for hours in the same direction I had walked before.
evp	direction	noun	2	B2	toward someone	She keeps looking in my direction.	I didn't know why she was talking to me but suddenly she walked in my direction and told me: "I need to know your name".
evp	direction	noun	3	C1	control or instructions	Under his direction, the company has doubled its profits.	I am writing to you on behalf of the Social Club of our language school to express some complaints that we had from several students concerning our recent visit to the Science and Technology Museum which is under your direction.
evp	direction	noun	4	C2	the way that someone or something changes or develops	Our careers have gone in very different directions.	At school and at home young people are supposed to take responsibility for their actions and choose a direction for their life.
evp	directions	noun	1	A2	instructions that tell you how to get to a particular place, or how to do something	Can you give me directions to your house?	I didn't know where the College was, and most of the people gave me wrong directions.
evp	directly	adverb	1	B1	with no other person or thing involved or in between	Our hotel room was directly above a building site.	The Youth Hostel was directly beside the sea.
evp	directly	adverb	2	B2	clearly and honestly	Let me answer that question directly.	While being interviewed, try to answer the questions directly and look into the interviewer's eyes.
evp	director	noun	1	B1	an important manager in an organization or company	the board of directors	It was from my school teacher and she was saying the most horrible things about the school, the director and other teachers.
evp	director	noun	2	B1	someone who tells the actors in a movie or play what to do	a famous film/movie director	Chan-wook Park is one of the most famous movie directors in Korea, also he has made a lot of money from his amazing movies.
evp	directory	noun	1	C1	a book or list of names, numbers, or other facts	I found your address in the school directory.	If you['d] like to know more, look at the phone book (directory); you'll find 3 or 4 pages about how to phone, how to dial, how to get numbers etc. in English.
evp	dirt	noun	1	B1	dust, soil or any substance that makes a surface not clean	His coat was covered with dirt.	Maybe in the future they'll find a new fabric which protects you from dirt and dangerous sunshine.
evp	dirty	adjective	1	A2	not clean	Her face was dirty and tear stained.	Please bring two aprons or our clothes will get dirty.
evp	disability	noun	1	B2	an illness, injury or condition that makes it difficult for someone to do the things that other people do	a physical/learning disability	Such problems as cancer, heart attack, or mental disability are very likely to bother you in the future.
evp	disabled	adjective	1	B1	having an illness, injury or condition that makes it difficult to do the things that most people do	The accident left him severely disabled.	I have done a lot of work looking after disabled people in the local area.
evp	disadvantage	noun	1	B1	something which makes a situation more difficult, or makes you less likely to succeed	One disadvantage of living in the town is the lack of safe places for the children to play.	After that we discussed the advantages and disadvantages of public transport.
evp	disadvantage	noun	2	C2	having problems that other people do not have	Being shy puts him at a disadvantage.	These children are also at a disadvantage in terms of education, they may not be able to go to good school, engage in extracurricular activities like sports and music which can be quite expensive if you are living on a budget.
evp	disadvantaged	adjective	1	C1	Disadvantaged people are poor and do not have many opportunities.	economically disadvantaged children	Therefore, there are several ways in which these people are becoming more and more disadvantaged.
evp	disagree	verb	1	B1	to have a different opinion than someone else about something	I disagree with most of what he said.	We saw "Harry Potter" and the film was good but I think the book is better. Carlos disagreed with me.
evp	disagreement	noun	1	B2	when people have a different opinion about something or have an argument	They had a disagreement about/over money.	I am writing to express my disagreement with your article "Failure of Festival", as I attended the festival last weekend.
evp	disappear	verb	1	B1	to become impossible to see	The sun disappeared behind a cloud.	They saw my mother's shadow on the stairs and disappeared.
evp	disappear	verb	2	B1	to become impossible to find	She disappeared from her home over a month ago.	I noticed that my wallet had disappeared.
evp	disappear	verb	3	B2	to no longer exist	These flowers are disappearing from our countryside.	It seems that the decorative role of clothes will have disappeared by the year 2050.
evp	disappearance	noun	1	B2	when someone or something disappears	A man was being questioned in connection with her disappearance.	After his disappearance lots of people were looking for him and in the end they tracked him down!
evp	disappoint	verb	1	B1	to make someone feel unhappy because someone or something was not as good as they had expected	I'm sorry to disappoint you, but I'm afraid I can't come after all.	I've always got along very well with little kids and I'm sure I won't disappoint you.
evp	disappointed	adjective	1	B1	unhappy because someone or something was not as good as you hoped or expected, or because something did not happen	She was disappointed (that) they hadn't phoned.	I feel so disappointed.
evp	disappointing	adjective	1	B1	making you feel disappointed	What a disappointing performance/conclusion!	I started my new English class last week, which was a really disappointing experience since the teacher was not a native speaker.
evp	disappointment	noun	1	B1	the feeling of being disappointed	Book early to avoid disappointment.	However, to my disappointment, the restaurant was closed because it was being redecorated.
evp	disappointment	noun	2	B1	something or someone that disappoints you	The party turned out to be a big / huge / great disappointment.	It was all a big disappointment!
evp	disapproval	noun	1	C1	when you think that someone or something is bad or wrong	I could sense their disapproval.	I am writing to express my disapproval of the deplorable service experienced in your museum.
evp	disapprove	verb	1	B2	to feel that something or someone is bad or wrong	The survey showed that 32% of respondents approve, 54% disapprove and the rest are undecided.	Since the system has more disadvantages than advantages, I disapprove of the "open 24 hours a day, seven days a week" system.
evp	disaster	noun	1	B2	something that causes great harm or damage	An investigation was ordered into the recent train disaster.	Secondly, we have to save our planet from disaster.
evp	disaster	noun	2	B2	something that is a failure or has a negative result	His idea was a total disaster.	We were freezing. And this combined with the rain made the last day a complete disaster.
evp	disastrous	adjective	1	C1	extremely bad	disastrous consequences	Some may altogether give up their studies, which I think is a disastrous move.
evp	discipline	noun	1	B2	when people's behavior is controlled using rules and punishments	military/school discipline	I don't know if that is because of their age, but whatever it is, I think teachers should change the methods of discipline they use.
evp	discipline	noun	2	C1	when you can control your own behavior carefully	I don't have enough discipline to save money.	He's an example to be followed not only as an athlete, but also as a person who is a symbol of discipline, maturity, humility.
evp	discipline	noun	3	C2	a particular subject of study	the scientific disciplines	Amongst the newly employed, people with a background in education score the highest with 79%, almost 20% more than the other two disciplines.
evp	disc jockey	noun	1	B1	someone who plays music on the radio or at live events	a radio disc jockey	I found out that there would be a special event with disc jockeys like DJ Quicksilver.
evp	disclose	verb	1	C2	to give new or secret information to someone	He refused to disclose details of the report.	There are so many doors left unopened and so many secrets to be disclosed!
evp	disco	noun	1	A2	a place or event where people dance to pop music	disco lights	I think Saturday will be the best for me and then we can go to a disco.
evp	discomfort	noun	1	C1	a physically uncomfortable situation	They traveled in great discomfort.	In view of this, I expect full reimbursement of the cost. and compensation for the discomfort the students suffered.
evp	discomfort	noun	2	C2	slight pain	You may feel some discomfort for a few days.	As we live longer, the natural weakening of our bodies causes us increasing discomfort and pain, restricting our abilities.
evp	discomfort	noun	3	C2	when you feel slightly embarrassed or anxious	I could see that the talk of divorce was causing her some discomfort.	A feeling of discomfort is emerging in society, where the homeless feel upset and the rich feel guilty for spending their money o] luxurious things.
evp	discontent	noun	1	C1	unhappiness about a situation	There is growing discontent with governor's budget proposal.	You must know that this is a delicate moment for the Italian economy, because of the recession and unemployment problems, and the discontent with government policy has pushed many workers to go on strike.
evp	discount	noun	1	A2	a reduction in price	They usually give you a discount if you buy multiple copies.	The staff get discounts on books and CDs!
evp	discourage	verb	1	B2	to make someone less confident or enthusiastic about something	The thought of how much work she had to do discouraged her.	It should include the prices of the tickets. If not, it will discourage people.
evp	discourage	verb	2	B2	to try to persuade someone not to do something	We tried to discourage him from spending so much money.	I believe this kind of comments and incorrect information will discourage people from attending cultural events.
evp	discourage	verb	3	C2	to try to prevent something from happening	Higher taxes could discourage business investment.	The truth their argument holds is overshadowed by the deteriorating conditions of living in the cities where frequent police patrols or stricter laws don't seem to discourage thefts.
evp	discover	verb	1	B1	to find out something or to find a place or an object, especially for the first time	Who discovered America?	I have discovered that horses are wonderful animals.
evp	discovery	noun	1	B2	when someone discovers something	the discovery of electricity	How will this affect our lifestyles and homes in the future if scientists go on making new discoveries?
evp	discovery	noun	2	C1	something or someone that is discovered	I've made a great discovery!	My second discovery is a more serious one. After thirty years since its premiere, "Macbeth" sees its first release on video.
evp	discreet	adjective	1	C2	careful not to cause embarrassment or attract too much attention	Can I trust you to be discreet?	Though he seems to keep an eye on us, he is very discreet and never impinges on our privacy.
evp	discretion	noun	1	C2	when someone is careful not to cause embarrassment or attract too much attention, especially by keeping something secret	You can rely on my discretion.	While it's their right to make the most of what they get, TV companies should also exercise a reasonable amount of discretion and tact.
evp	discriminate	verb	1	C1	to treat someone unfairly because of their sex, race, religion, etc.	The company was accused of discriminating against people on the basis of age.	Firstly, the disadvantage of this policy is that it discriminates against the poor.
evp	discriminate	verb	2	C2	to notice a difference between two things	Police dogs are very good at discriminating between different smells.	Others do not discriminate between different types of knowledge, but rather read anything that could intellectually increase their perception of the world around them.
evp	discrimination	noun	1	C1	when someone is treated unfairly because of their sex, race, religion, etc.	racial/age/gender discrimination	I firmly believe that gender discrimination should be avoided and children should attend a mixed schools.
evp	discuss	verb	1	A2	to talk about something with someone and tell each other your ideas or opinions	Have you discussed this matter with anyone else?	When we meet, we usually watch a science fiction film, then we discuss it.
evp	discussion	noun	1	B1	when people talk about something and tell each other their ideas or opinions	They were having a discussion about football.	Jane told us something about the Civil War and after that we had a discussion about the rights of black people in those days.
evp	disease	noun	1	B1	(an) illness caused by infection or by a failure of health rather than by an accident	heart disease	I was worried about her incurable disease.
evp	disgrace	noun	1	B2	when someone does something very bad that makes people stop respecting them or their family, team, etc.	They were sent home in disgrace.	When we came back, it felt like we were sinking into a miserable life, full of disgrace.
evp	disgrace	noun	2	B2	to be very bad	It's a disgrace that money is being wasted like this.	The park is really a disgrace.
evp	disgrace	noun	3	C2	to be so bad or unacceptable that you make people stop respecting a particular group, activity, etc.	You are a disgrace to your profession.	It's a disgrace to mankind!
evp	disguise	noun	1	B2	clothes and other things that you wear to change the way you look so that people cannot recognize you	She usually goes out in disguise to avoid being bothered by the public.	There will be a big parade in the first week of the month with people in disguise.
evp	disguise	verb	1	B2	to give a new appearance to a person or thing, especially in order to hide its true form	He disguised himself by shaving his head and wearing a false beard.	This writer that we are going to welcome is a brilliant woman, because she had the courage to disguise herself as an im]migran to see and to feel how those poor and miserable Turkish im]migrant live in Germany.
evp	disguise	verb	2	C2	to hide something such as a feeling or opinion	She couldn't disguise her disappointment.	She started as a secretary, carefully disguising her talent and energy, just to land the job.
evp	disgust	noun	1	C2	a very strong feeling of dislike or disapproval	She walked out in disgust.	But even real game lovers regularly express their disgust about the lack of interest with which many heavily overpaid players hang around o] the field during a match.
evp	disgusted	adjective	1	C1	feeling extreme dislike or disapproval of something	I'm totally disgusted with your behavior.	They are often disappointed or even disgusted with the kind of jobs they were made do, like washing dishes or working on the farm.
evp	disgusting	adjective	1	B1	extremely unpleasant or unacceptable	It's disgusting that there are no schools or hospitals for these people.	Personally I don't like the special food that they do sometimes, because it's disgusting.
evp	dish	noun	1	A2	a curved container for eating and serving food from	an oven-proof dish	You should be able to serve it in dishes or glasses.
evp	dish	noun	2	A2	food prepared in a particular way as part of a meal	a chicken/vegetarian dish	I like rice and sweet dishes.
evp	dish	noun	3	A2	dirty plates, bowls and other objects that have been used for cooking or eating food	Who's going to do/wash the dishes?	Because after dinner I washed the dishes, so I put my ring on the table.
evp	dishonest	adjective	1	B2	not honest and likely to lie or do something illegal	a dishonest lawyer	Both of them are dishonest men: Joss organizes the smuggling, and Jem is a horse-thief.
evp	dishonestly	adverb	1	C1	in a dishonest way	She acted dishonestly.	The prize is valueless if achieved dishonestly.
evp	dishonesty	noun	1	B2	when someone is not honest	Her dishonesty landed her in prison.	He is so open in his dishonesty that Mary can't be angry with him.
evp	dishwasher	noun	1	B1	a machine that washes dirty plates, cups, forks, etc.	I was just loading the dishwasher.	Finally, modern technology has changed my way of spending the free time that is provided by household appliances such as the dishwasher and the washing machine.
evp	disillusioned	adjective	1	C2	feeling disappointed because something is not as good as you thought it was	She says she's disillusioned with the music business.	They were disappointed and disillusioned.
evp	disk	noun	1	B1	a CD	Both songs are on their latest disk.	At last would you tell us which is the best present for him a compact disk or a book.
evp	disk	noun	2	B1	a piece of computer equipment that records and stores information electronically	the hard disk	I bought a brand new, state of the art computer which is equipped with a 300 Mhz PENTIUM Processor, a 300 GB hard disk, a 17" monitor and so on.
evp	disk	noun	3	B2	a flat, round shape or object	The dog had a small, metal disk attached to its collar.	
evp	disk	noun	4	C2	a piece of cartilage between the bones in your back	a slipped disk	As a matter of fact, living off sports is rather precarious, as you cannot predict when, due to a torn ligament or a slipped disk, you will be doomed to sink into oblivion.
evp	dislike	verb	1	B1	to not like someone or something	Why do you dislike her so much?	I generally prefer reading newspapers, but I don't dislike books.
evp	dislike	noun	1	B1	things that you do and do not like	What are your top five likes and dislikes?	The teacher asked about our families, friends, and likes and dislikes and then the lesson finished.
evp	dislike	noun	2	B2	when you do not like someone or something	a dislike of cold weather	The main reason for my dislike is that it's so unnatural.
evp	disloyal	adjective	1	C2	not loyal or not supporting someone who you should support	I don't want to be disloyal to my friend.	These stories always have a happy ending: those who are faithful and reliable are rewarded but those who cause pain or are disloyal are punished.
evp	dismay	noun	1	C2	a feeling of unhappiness and disappointment	To our dismay, it started raining.	Much to our dismay, we could not find either his mother or his father.
evp	dismiss	verb	1	C1	to refuse to consider an idea or opinion	Let’s not dismiss the idea without discussing it.	That is why I would dismiss this facility: there is already a small video room in our school which is hardly ever used.
evp	dismiss	verb	2	C1	to officially make someone leave their job	He arrived late every day and was eventually dismissed.	What's more, every day hundreds of workmen are dismissed and thereby the ratio of unemployment still increases.
evp	dismissal	noun	1	C1	when someone refuses to consider an idea or opinion	I was angered by his dismissal of my worries.	Their dismissal of our proposal was essentially because of our lack of worldwide investments; as everybody knows, we fundamentally concentrate our assets inside the European Union boundaries.
evp	dismissal	noun	2	C1	when an employer officially makes someone leave their job	a letter of dismissal	Another episode of this sort is when Miss K. threatens to leave Darlington Hall because of the dismissal of the two Jewish maids.
evp	disorder	noun	1	C1	an illness or medical condition	a mental/physical disorder	We should react at an early stage of an eating disorder by watching ourselves, consulting a doctor and going to the fitness center.
evp	disorder	noun	2	C1	uncontrolled, bad behavior, especially by large groups of people	crime and disorder	Although the transport facilities are good, the neighborhood has become increasingly dangerous, with numerous incidents of attacks and public disorder.
evp	disorder	noun	3	C2	when things are untidy or confused and not organized	His finances are in complete disorder.	My home might, to an outsider, give the feeling of complete disorder, not to say craziness, but I can assure you that it was not true at all.
evp	disorganized	adjective	1	B2	not planned or organized well	The whole conference was totally disorganized - nobody knew what they were supposed to be doing.	Even though it was rather disorganized, most of the audience seemed to be pleased with it.
evp	disorganized	adjective	2	B2	not good at planning or organizing things	He's impossible to work for - he's so disorganized.	People get disorganized in their financial budgeting because of too much shopping.
evp	displace	verb	1	C1	to take the place of someone or something	Many of these workers will be displaced by modern technology.	Mexico was traditionally the land of the tortilla and the beans, but every day, this seems to be changing ever more rapidly, displaced by the heavy advertising campaigns and Americani[z]ed habits.
evp	displacement	noun	1	C1	the act of displacing something	Widespread flooding has led to the displacement of thousands of people.	Apart from the fact that population growth is also playing its role, the reason for the enormously increased size of cities is the displacement of people from rural areas to the cities.
evp	display	noun	1	B1	a collection of objects or pictures arranged for people to look at	a display of children's paintings	I decided to visit a museum which has a special display on Friday.
evp	display	noun	2	B1	If something is on display, it is there for people to look at.	Many old airplanes are on display at the museum.	There were some new musical instruments on display.
evp	display	noun	3	B1	when something is shown electronically such as on a computer screen	The display problems might be due to a shortage of disk space.	The phone has many facilities like games and color display.
evp	display	noun	4	B2	a performance or show for people to watch	a fireworks display	Lastly, the fireworks display was wonderful and there were more than 5000 spectators who enjoyed themselves.
evp	display	noun	5	C2	when someone behaves in a way that shows they have a particular feeling or attitude	The politicians shook hands in a display of unity for the media.	That is the reason why Charles is annoyed by her occasional urgent displays of affection.
evp	display	verb	1	B1	to arrange something somewhere so that people can see it	Family photographs were displayed on the wall.	The problem with some museums is that the way in which the pieces of art are displayed is not right.
evp	display	verb	2	B2	to show something electronically such as on a computer screen	The text can be displayed and edited on screen.	The timetable is hidden somewhere in a submenu which, I think, should be displayed on the main page.
evp	display	verb	3	C2	to show how you feel by your expression or behavior	He doesn’t display much emotion.	The above feeling demonstrates about Okonkwo his constant anxiety to demonstrate - he and his son - constant manliness and t] not display any feeling of love, gentleness and support even to his own children.
evp	disposable	adjective	1	C2	intended to be used only once and then thrown away	a disposable camera/razor	One drawback is the usage of disposable knives, forks and plates, which shouldn't be used nowadays.
evp	disposable income	noun	1	C2	the amount of money that you have available to spend after tax, rent and other basic things that you must pay	Most of our customers have a large disposable income.	It's true that people have more disposable income than ever, but surprisingly, people also have more debts.
evp	disposal	noun	1	B2	when you get rid of something, especially by throwing it away	waste disposal	Nowadays waste disposal and environmental protection has become one of the most important questions of our life in a world with environmental catastrophes.
evp	disposal	noun	2	B2	available for you to use at any time	We will have a car at our disposal for the whole trip.	But on Wednesday morning I'm at your disposal.
evp	disposition	noun	1	C2	the type of character someone has	a cheerful/nervous disposition	She is a really special girl with personal values and a really sweet disposition.
evp	dispute	noun	1	C2	a disagreement, especially one that lasts a long time	He and his neighbor have a long-running dispute over noise.	In former times these territorial and religious disputes resulted in a decrease in population.
evp	dispute	verb	1	C2	to disagree with something someone says	I don’t dispute that his films are entertaining.	Nobody disputes nowadays the importance of learning another language and the advantages that this knowledge provides in adult life.
evp	disqualify	verb	1	C2	to stop someone from being in a competition or doing some other activity because they have done something wrong	She was disqualified from the race after a drugs test.	Also a member who is not paying the contributions to the SOE club will be disqualified from it.
evp	disrespect	noun	1	C1	when someone does not show respect or behave politely toward someone or something	She apologized for not responding to the letter and said she had meant no disrespect.	Sometimes competition leads to fights and disrespect.
evp	disrespectful	adjective	1	C2	being rude and not showing any respect	Don't be disrespectful to your mother.	I am afraid I totally disagree since this attitude is disrespectful toward our architecture.
evp	disrupt	verb	1	B2	to interrupt something and stop it continuing as it should	A heavy snowfall had disrupted the city's transportation system.	Tea and coffee disrupt The Nerve System.
evp	disruption	noun	1	C1	when something is stopped from happening as it should	a disruption of services	Please also advise if there are evening or weekend courses, so I can attend them without any disruption to my main work.
evp	disruptive	adjective	1	C2	causing problems that interrupt something and stop it continuing as it should	disruptive behavior	It can be very disruptive for families with children if one of the parents moves abroad for several months, maybe only coming home every other weekend or so.
evp	dissatisfaction	noun	1	B2	when someone is dissatisfied	At the moment she's experiencing a lot of dissatisfaction with
her job.	I expect a full refund plus compensation for my dissatisfaction and discomfort which I suffered.
evp	dissatisfied	adjective	1	B2	not pleased or happy with something	If you're dissatisfied with the service, why don't you complain to the hotel manager?	However, I must say that museums are really useful, to understand the history of the world, and that's why people keep going there even though they're sometimes dissatisfied.
evp	dissertation	noun	1	C1	a very long piece of writing done as part of a course of study	She's writing a dissertation on American poetry.	I have completed my dissertation work on antifungal studies.
evp	dissolve	verb	1	C1	to end an organization or official arrangement	Their marriage was dissolved in 1996.	Now, the Parliament is dissolved and we are waiting for new elections.
evp	dissolve	verb	2	C2	If a solid dissolves, it becomes part of a liquid, and if you dissolve it, you make it become part of a liquid.	These tablets dissolve in water.	
evp	distance	noun	1	B1	the amount of space between two places	What's the distance between Madrid and Barcelona/from Madrid to Barcelona?	There are also caves to explore a short distance away.
evp	distance	noun	2	B2	somewhere that is far away, but close enough for you to see or hear the things that are there	I could see Mary in the distance.	Far in the distance they spotted another ship.
evp	distant	adjective	1	B2	far away	a distant country	A distant rumbling could be heard through the thick layers of rock that she was under.
evp	distant	adjective	2	C1	not friendly	She seemed cold and distant.	I like the idea of joining a lively team; being a gregarious person I need a change from the cold and distant treatment which is usual in the big department stores.
evp	distant	adjective	3	C2	A distant relative is not very closely related to you.	a distant cousin	Sometimes it's difficult to welcome a distant cousin who we've never heard of before, even though our mother remembers him perfectly.
evp	distinct	adjective	1	C1	different and separate	This word has three distinct meanings.	However, two distinct groups of employees, namely the molecular dynamics simulation group and the Drawing Section, are indeed hampered in their daily work due to old equipment.
evp	distinct	adjective	2	C1	clear and certain	There's been a distinct improvement in your work.	So, getting married, either in your thirties or when younger, has distinct advantages.
evp	distinct	adjective	3	C2	easy to hear, see, or smell	The voices gradually became louder and more distinct.	On these occasions it is quite possible to distinguish a distinct smell of kerosene.
evp	distinction	noun	1	B2	a difference between two similar things	the distinction between spoken and written language	You must be able to make a distinction between wild and ferocious species and small animals.
evp	distinction	noun	2	C2	a quality or fact that makes someone or something special or different	He is a scientist of great distinction.	In the end what really made her so successful was her famous Tailleur sign of elegance and distinction and her well-known perfume, Chanel no. 5.
evp	distinctive	adjective	1	C1	Something that is distinctive is easy to recognize because it is different from other things.	a distinctive style of writing	But their most distinctive feature is their carefree manner of walking, taking their time and actually looking at the buildings, the people, the landscapes.
evp	distinguish	verb	1	B2	to recognize the differences between two people, ideas or things	He's colorblind and can't distinguish (the difference) between red and green easily.	This is the scene where in a card game between pig Napoleon and human Pilkington, the other animals, who secretly watch the game through the window, find it impossible to distinguish between pigs and humans.
evp	distinguish	verb	2	B2	to make one person or thing seem different from another	His great skill distinguishes him from the rest of the team.	A person distinguishes himself from others by different tastes, manners, characters.
evp	distinguish	verb	3	B2	to be able to see, hear or understand something	I couldn't distinguish anything in the darkness.	I could distinguish nothing in the darkness and was scar]e to death.
evp	distinguished	adjective	1	B2	famous, praised, or admired	a distinguished writer	One of HuXin Ting's most distinguished visitors in recent times was Queen Elizabeth II, whose tour of Shanghai included a stop here and a cup of tea.
evp	distort	verb	1	C1	to change information so that it is not true or realistic	Newspapers distorted the truth about their marriage.	The report distorted this figure to "less than 60%".
evp	distract	verb	1	B2	to make someone stop giving their attention to something	Don't distract her from her studies.	Television is not always useful because it distracts our mind from other things.
evp	distraction	noun	1	C1	something that makes you stop giving your attention to something else	The phone calls were a constant distraction.	This would have the additional advantage of helping them to concentrate on their job without any distraction.
evp	distraction	noun	2	C1	an activity you can do for fun or entertainment	He is studying too much and needs some distractions.	Swiss people are workaholics; they sacrifice their free time to earn money, although occasionally they need some kind of distraction.
evp	distress	noun	1	C1	the feeling of being extremely upset or worried	The newspaper reports caused her a great deal of distress.	I am constantly praised for the quality of my work and I get personal satisfaction helping people in emotional distress.
evp	distress	noun	2	C2	when someone or something is in danger and needs help	a ship in distress	Let's start this process by helping and caring for the people in distress and providing them with what we can.
evp	distressed	adjective	1	C1	extremely upset or worried	They were very distressed to learn of her death.	I was distressed to discover that your advertisement was inaccurate.
evp	distressing	adjective	1	B2	making you feel extremely worried or upset	distressing news	If you confront a distressing situation try to compensate for it with a relaxing activity.
evp	distribute	verb	1	B2	to give something out to several people	The books will be distributed free to local schools.	I also had to distribute the flyers at the concert]
evp	distribute	verb	2	C1	to supply goods to shops and companies	The company manufactures and distributes computer equipment worldwide.	Our company imports all the merchandise from the Far East and then distributes those products in high quantities to different customers.
evp	distribution	noun	1	C1	when something is supplied or given out to people or places	the sale and distribution of electronic equipment	During the economic slowdown throughout the 1980s, the use of railroads for goods transport dropped significantly (about 50%) while terrestrial and water transport provided cheaper and more effective means of distribution.
evp	distribution	noun	2	C1	the way something is divided and shared in a group or area	the distribution of wealth	Poverty, domestic problems and an uneven distribution of wealth in the community make such children bitter and instead of working hard, they become rebellious and try to look for short cuts to gain money and comfort.
evp	district	noun	1	B1	a part of a city or country, either an official area or one that is known for having a particular feature or characteristic	the 23rd Congressional District Council	I recommend you go from one district to another by public transport.
evp	disturb	verb	1	B2	to interrupt what someone is doing by making noise or annoying them	Please don't disturb Georgina - she's trying to do her homework.	If we go outdoors we won't disturb my parents.
evp	disturb	verb	2	C2	to make someone feel anxious or upset	Some scenes are violent and may disturb younger viewers.	What disturbed me, and made me stop cleaning all together, was when one of them said, quote: "I want to earn lots of money - that's all I care about," end quote.
evp	disturbance	noun	1	C1	something that interrupts what you are doing, especially something loud or annoying	I don't want any disturbances this morning.	I think the provision of a children's section will also solve, or at least minimize, the disturbance caused by the kids.
evp	disturbance	noun	2	C2	when people fight or shout	A man was hurt during a disturbance outside city hall.	Social disturbances are also a result of unemployment.
evp	disturbed	adjective	1	C2	not thinking or behaving normally because of mental or emotional problems	He is a very disturbed child.	James tore at his neatly trimmed hair, revealing how disturbed he was.
evp	disturbing	adjective	1	C2	unpleasant in a way that makes people feel anxious or upset	disturbing images	Still, I find Edmund's character disturbing and I do not believe that his background alone could have created such an evil human being.
evp	dive	verb	1	B1	If you dive into water, you enter it headfirst with your arms held out above your head.	They ran to the pool, dove in, and swam to the other side.	I know how to swim and dive from high places.
evp	dive	verb	2	B1	to swim under water, usually with breathing equipment	I like to go somewhere on vacation where I can dive.	I'm sure that she will be a wonderful guide. I'll ask her to take me to shop, to dive, and to surf.
evp	dive	verb	3	C2	to start doing something suddenly and energetically, often without stopping to think	Unfortunately, I dove into the discussion without being fully informed.	Firstly, it is possible for me to dive into a whole new world - personally, socially and professionally - without losing myself.
evp	dive	noun	1	B2	when you enter water headfirst with your arms held out above your head	He entered the pool with a neat dive.	
evp	dive	noun	2	B2	when you spend some time swimming under water	The center also offers night dives, which I highly recommend.	It will start with a medical test, a few hours of theory, some training dives in a swimming pool and, at last, two dives on the reef.
evp	diver	noun	1	B1	someone who swims under water, usually with breathing equipment	a deep-sea diver	I've got the qualification of "open water diver''.
evp	diverse	adjective	1	B2	varied or different	Students from countries as diverse as Colombia and Lithuania use Cambridge textbooks.	I am a sociable person who has been exposed to diverse social circumstances.
evp	diversity	noun	1	C1	when many different types of things or people are included in something	Does television adequately reflect the ethnic and cultural diversity of the country?	On the other hand, the fact that all the people buy the same goods and live in similar ways may threaten the cultural diversity.
evp	divide	verb	1	B1	to separate into parts or groups or to make people or things do this	At the end of the lecture, I'd like all the students to divide into small discussion groups.	The class was divided into two groups.
evp	divide	verb	2	B2	to separate a place into two areas	There's a narrow alley which divides our house from the one next door.	The city is divided into two parts by the River Danube: Buda and Pest.
evp	divide	verb	3	C1	to separate something into parts and give a part to each person in a group	The prize money will be divided equally among the winners.	As women start to work outside the home more, the housework has to be divided among all the family members.
evp	divide	verb	4	C1	to calculate how many times a number can go into another number	12 divided by 6 equals 2.	
evp	divide	verb	5	C1	to cause people to disagree about something	The city council was divided over plans to build a new stadium.	It is certainly clear to all that cars cannot continue to enter the city as they are currently doing, but this is a polemic subject and citizens are bound to be divided.
evp	divide	noun	1	C1	a difference or separation	Because of debt repayments, the divide between rich and poor countries is continuing to grow.	Certainly, there are a lot of exceptions but this system can be considered as a kind of social divide.
evp	divided	adjective	1	B2	If a group, organization or country is divided, there are disagreements among the people in it.	Board members are divided over the plans for the new stadium.	Opinions are divided.
evp	diving	noun	1	B1	the activity of swimming under water, usually with breathing equipment	I want to go diving in Malta.	We can go fishing, diving or windsurfing, it depends on how you would like to spend your time.
evp	division	noun	1	B2	when something is separated into parts or groups, or the way that it is separated	the division of responsibilities among workers	Suddenly all the atomic missiles of the defensive system rose up in the sky, and so did the Russian ones, not turned off after the division of the ex-USSR.
evp	division	noun	2	B2	one of the groups in a business or organization	the sales division	Being a lucky guy, I had the chance to work at the Disneyland Hotel, which is a division of the famous Walt Disney Company.
evp	division	noun	3	B2	one of the groups of teams in a league	the Eastern Division	At the moment I am twenty-one years old and I'm playing in the third division of the Belgian Soccer Association.
evp	divorce	noun	1	B1	when two people officially stop being married	The last I heard they were getting a divorce.	After her divorce, she had two boyfriends.
evp	divorce	verb	1	B2	to end a marriage by an official or legal process	She's divorcing her husband.	I asked Vina, "If I divorce my wife, will you marry me?"
evp	divorced	adjective	1	B1	married in the past but not now married	She's divorced.	My best friend Petra is getting divorced.
evp	dizzy	adjective	1	B2	feeling as if everything is turning round, so that you feel ill or as if you might fall	Going without sleep for a long time makes me feel dizzy and lightheaded.	She felt a little bit dizzy.
evp	DJ	noun	1	B1	someone who plays music on the radio or at live events	He's a DJ on Radio 1.	I found out that there would be a special event with disc jockeys like DJ Quicksilver.
evp	DNA	noun	1	C2	deoxyribonucleic acid; a chemical in the cells of living things which contains genetic information	DNA evidence led to her arrest.	All these things have a common root: the discovery of the structure of the DNA by Watson and Crick.
evp	do	verb	1	A1	to perform an action	What should we do?	I have nothing to do.
evp	do	verb	2	A1	to perform a job in the house	I do the cooking but Joe does most of the cleaning.	She likes to do the cooking.
evp	do	verb	3	A1	used to ask what someone's job is	"What do you do (for a living)?" "I'm a doctor."	What does Angie do?
evp	do	verb	4	A2	to make or produce something	I've done 20 copies of the handout.	[On] any special day like Devali they do some special sweet food.
evp	do	verb	5	A2	used for talking or asking about someone and whether they are healthy, happy, or succeeding	Hi, how are you doing?	I'm doing fine.
evp	do	verb	6	A2	to perform a sports activity	She does yoga in her spare time.	[At the club,] I can swim, do karate or yoga, play soccer, tennis, squash and table-tennis.
evp	do	verb	7	B1	to make your hair/makeup, etc. look nice	It takes him half an hour to do his hair in the morning.	I was the assistant of the person responsible for the clothes and make-up of the pop-group, and I was asked to do their make-up on my own.
evp	do	verb	8	B1	to make the greatest effort possible	I did my best to persuade him.	I'll do my best to cover the work.
evp	do	verb	9	B2	to have a good effect on someone	A break from this would do us all good.	I must admit that my stay in your nice home did me good.
evp	do	verb	10	B2	to cause damage/harm, etc.	The fire did a lot of structural damage to the building.	I promise not to do any damage!
evp	do	verb	11	B2	to be related to something	She lacks confidence and I think that has to do with her childhood.	I think that is nothing to do with my accident.
evp	do	verb	12	C1	used to say that something seems like a good idea but it would be difficult to do	I want to ask her out, but it's easier said than done.	I know it's easier said than done but you have to try.
evp	do	verb	13	C1	to try as hard as you can to do something	We did our utmost to finish the project on time.	In addition, we live in a materialistic society where we all do our utmost in order to make ends meet, but we are never satisfied.
evp	do	verb	14	C2	If something does the job, it achieves the desired result.	I need somewhere to keep these papers – this folder should do the job.	Allow them to bring home friends and therefore develop social skills. In my opinion, that should do the job.
evp	do	verb	15	C2	to use something that is less good than you would like	If we can't get a bigger room we'll have to make do with this.	Very calmly, he said "I am not going to put up with this. You might say that I am being too emotional, overreacting, whatever. But I will not come back until my piano has been returned. And let me make very clear that I will not make do with another instrument."
evp	do	verb	16	C2	If something does the trick, it solves a problem or has the result you want.	If you have a headache, an aspirin will usually do the trick.	Using aromatherapy oil and scented candles always did the trick when she wanted to relax.
evp	do	verb	17	B2	to repair or decorate a building so that it looks attractive	He does up old houses and then sells them.	I think we could do up some of our old buildings that are nice but which the dirt and the pollution don't let us see.
evp	do	verb	18	B2	to manage without having something	Andrew's our best player - we can't really do without him.	We can't stand doing without the car.
evp	do	verb	19	C1	to get rid of something or stop using something	We may do away with the school uniform soon.	Argentinians seem to be doing away with fried food and baking, boiling and steaming are now the most common ways of cooking.
evp	dock	noun	1	C1	the place where ships stop and goods are taken off or put on	We went to the dock to see the ship leave.	I would like to take them with me to a very typical restaurant near the docks: Mummie's House 25 Harbour Street 2 Tel. 070 321 26 33.
evp	doctor	noun	1	A1	a person whose job is to treat people who are ill or hurt	You should see a doctor about that cough.	I'm going to start on Saturday, because on Friday I have to go to the doctor with my grandmother.
evp	document	noun	1	A2	a piece of paper with official information on it	official/confidential/legal documents	My credit cards and official documents are inside.
evp	document	noun	2	B1	a piece of text produced electronically on a computer	I'll send you the document by email.	That document was a "virus" and erased all my documents o] my computer.
evp	documentary	noun	1	B1	a film, television or radio program that gives facts and information about a subject	The documentary took a fresh look at the life of Darwin.	It's supposed to be a documentary about a man who lives with his wife and dogs in The Rockies, in Canada.
evp	dog	noun	1	A1	an animal with fur, four legs and a tail, especially kept by people as a pet or to hunt or guard buildings	my pet dog	She likes going to the park in her free time for a walk with her dog.
evp	doll	noun	1	A1	a child's toy that looks like a small person or baby	Lara loves playing with her dolls.	I've got a cute doll.
evp	dollar	noun	1	A1	the unit of money used in the US, Canada, Australia, New Zealand and some other countries	Can I borrow ten dollars?	Eugene gave me twenty dollars.
evp	dolphin	noun	1	B1	an intelligent animal that lives in the sea, breathes air and looks like a large, smooth, gray fish	They swam with dolphins on holiday.	I saw a dolphin jumping in the air.
evp	domain	noun	1	C1	a particular area, activity, or subject that someone controls or deals with	The garden is his domain.	I also believe that robots will prevail in the domain of health, as they will take the place of doctors and surgeons.
evp	domestic	adjective	1	B2	belonging or relating to the home, house or family	domestic chores/duties/arrangements	All domestic appliances such as showers, kettles, lights, TV and curtains may be voice activated.
evp	domestic	adjective	2	B2	relating to a person's own country	domestic airlines/flights	We should advertise all the good points of our city in the domestic and foreign mass-media.
evp	dominance	noun	1	C2	power, influence, and control	the company's dominance in the software industry	The past taught us that progress and maturity are defined by leaving behind selfishness and extreme individualism, the need for control, and dominance.
evp	dominant	adjective	1	C1	main or most important	Unemployment will be a dominant issue at the next election.	Looking back on the ongoing discussion about women's role in modern German society, there is one dominant impression: women have to enlarge, improve, intensify, etc.... they have to enlarge their horizon, to improve their professional skills, to intensify their involvement in politics and so on ....
evp	dominant	adjective	2	C2	strongest and wanting to take control	a dominant older brother	He was a very dominant boy and I was afraid of him.
evp	dominate	verb	1	B2	to have control over a place or a person	He refuses to let others speak and dominates every meeting.	For instance, in banks, schools, hospitals, and airports we are absolutely dominated by computers, aren't we?
evp	dominate	verb	2	C1	to be the largest, most important, or most noticeable part of something	The subject of pay dominated their discussions.	The religious values that dominated every aspect of life are slowly being replaced by new ones and the outcome of this metamorphosis has yet to be examined.
evp	domination	noun	1	C1	great power and control over someone or something else	world domination	[A] more serious argument is that the domination of huge multinationals suppresses local creativity and forces the local traditions to fade away.
evp	donate	verb	1	B2	to give money or goods to help a person or organization	An anonymous businesswoman donated one million dollars to the charity.	You don't have to pay for it but you can donate some money if you wish.
evp	donate	verb	2	C1	to allow some of your blood or part of your body to be used for medical purposes	He donated a kidney to his sister.	For example, he once saved my life, putting his in danger by donating a large quantity of blood.
evp	donation	noun	1	B2	when money or goods are given to help a person or organization	donations of food and money	First of all, I would like to say that I and my friends are very happy because of Mr Maitland's donation.
evp	donkey	noun	1	B1	an animal like a small horse with long ears	The donkey struggled with its heavy burden.	You can use animals like donkeys for transportation.
evp	donor	noun	1	C2	someone who gives some of their blood or part of their body to be used for medical purposes	She is a regular blood donor.	In this group we can include responsible authorities, sympathetic doctors, organ donors, good teachers and many other unknown people who devote their lives to a generous cause.
evp	donor	noun	2	C2	someone who gives money or goods to a person or organization that needs help	Ten thousand dollars was given by an anonymous donor.	Private donors raised some funds to prevent the hospital from closure.
evp	doom	noun	1	C2	death, destruction, and other unpleasant events that cannot be avoided	a horrible sense of doom	Men were not only humans but warriors who represented the army of immortals whose fate was to defend the Earth from the evil spirits of doom.
evp	doom	noun	2	C2	unhappiness and feeling no hope for the future	Life's not all doom and gloom, you know.	To sum up, experts can stop their doom and gloom statements about our uncertain future and the possible global crisis.
evp	door	noun	1	A1	a flat object, often fixed at one edge, that is used to close the entrance of something such as a room or building, or the entrance itself	the front door	There is a garden outside the back door but it isn't big.
evp	door	noun	2	C2	privately and not in public	Most of the deals were made behind closed doors.	Decisions which affect the whole world are made behind closed doors and are top secret.
evp	doorway	noun	1	C2	an entrance to a building or room through a door	She waited in the doorway while I ran back inside.	They sleep in doorways and beg in the street.
evp	dose	noun	1	B2	a measured amount of something such as medicine	a high/low dose	It is important to me because I have asthma and cannot miss even one dose of it.
evp	dose	noun	2	B2	an amount of something, often something unpleasant	a dose of bad news	You ought to plan your work and mainly learn in the morning when your brain is ready to accept a great dose of knowledge.
evp	dot	noun	1	B1	the spoken form of a period in an Internet or e-mail address, or some computer files	"What's the web address?" "www dot cambridge dot org."	
evp	dot	noun	2	B2	a very small round mark	The period at the end of this sentence is a dot.	On the map we have marked a black dot on the place where you will find the hotel.
evp	dot	noun	3	C2	at that exact time	We have to leave at 7:30 on the dot.	He gave him an address and told him to be there at six on the dot.
evp	double	adjective	1	A2	twice the size, amount, price, etc., or consisting of two similar things together	I'd like to book a double room.	I'm going to buy a double bed, that is why I need to sell the single one.
evp	double	verb	1	B2	to become twice the original size or amount, or to make something do this	The government aims to double the number of students in higher education within 25 years.	Please repair it today and I will double your salary.
evp	doubt	noun	1	B1	when you are not certain about something, or do not trust someone or something	I'm having doubts about his ability to do the job.	If you have any doubt, send me an e-mail.
evp	doubt	noun	2	B1	to be certain	I have no doubt (that) I made the right decision.	Maria went with me, and I have no doubt she loved the lake like I did.
evp	doubt	noun	3	B1	it is certain	There is no doubt (that) he's a good player.	However, there is no doubt that it is a nice one.
evp	doubt	noun	4	B2	to not be certain	The future of the project is in doubt.	If you don't know the difference, or if you are in doubt, keep on reading.
evp	doubt	noun	5	B2	certainly	She is without doubt a great writer.	Without a doubt we all are influenced by fashion in a number of ways.
evp	doubt	noun	6	C1	used to say that something is very likely	No doubt she'll spend the money on new clothes.	No doubt I will find the skills acquired during the course, especially speaking skills, most useful in my future contacts with clients from English-speaking countries.
evp	doubt	noun	7	C2	to make people feel uncertain about someone or something	Witnesses have cast doubt on the suspect's innocence.	Wars lead to suffering, tears and the death of many people. They cast doubt on our humanity and values, especially in countries where the right to live is the principal one.
evp	doubt	noun	8	C2	completely certain and without any doubt	It is beyond doubt that she the best students I’ve ever taught.	What I would regard as being my most treasured possession is beyond doubt my precious collection of books.
evp	doubt	noun	9	C2	If something is true beyond a shadow of a doubt, it is certainly true.	He convinced me , but it hasn't been proved beyond the shadow of a doubt.	It has been established beyond a shadow of a doubt that the growth in world population is one of the most compelling problems the Earth is facing.
evp	doubt	noun	10	C2	to choose to believe what someone tells you even though it may be wrong or a lie	She says her train was late, so I suppose we'd better give her the benefit of the doubt.	Every time our parents tell us ".. have you thought about it, are you sure you are not making a mistake?" we just answer "sure I have, no problem." Next time they do, let's give them the benefit of the doubt and let's think twice about the subject.
evp	doubt	verb	1	B2	to feel uncertain about something or to think that something is not probable	I doubt whether/if I can finish the work on time.	She doubted if she could manage it at all.
evp	doubt	verb	2	C1	to not believe someone or something	Do you have any reason to doubt her?	After I had closed that window again, I doubted my senses.
evp	doubtful	adjective	1	B2	not probable	It is doubtful whether/if he'll be able to come.	It is certainly doubtful to say that the characteristics we are born with have much more influence on our personality than any experiences we may have in our life.
evp	doubtful	adjective	2	B2	not feeling certain about something	The teacher is doubtful about having parents working as classroom assistants.	I am very doubtful about whether you were there when it was held.
evp	down	adverb	1	A1	moving from above and onto a surface	Just as I was sitting down to watch TV, the phone rang.	So I sat down to write the answer.
evp	down	adverb	2	A2	toward or in a low or lower position, from a higher one	Is this elevator going down?	All the mountains were colored when the sun was going down.
evp	down	adverb	3	B1	in writing or on paper	Do you have it down in writing/on paper, or was it just a verbal agreement?	You have to bring a pen and paper to write down the teacher's notes.
evp	down	adverb	4	B1	used, especially with prepositions, to emphasize that a place is far from you or from somewhere considered to be central	I'll meet you down at the gym after work.	As soon as we drove down from the hills, I heard the noise from the town and I didn't like that.
evp	down	adverb	5	C2	to be unhappy	He looks a bit down in the dumps.	She felt happy when I was down in the dumps or in a fix and kept on being jealous of me concerning trivial matters.
evp	down	adjective	1	B2	unhappy or unable to feel excited or energetic about anything	She's been really down since her husband died.	If you are feeling down or depressed, what do you do]
evp	down	adjective	2	C1	If a computer or machine is down, it is temporarily not working.	The network was down all morning.	If other departments use the online system, it seems to be down for a while.
evp	down	adjective	3	C2	having no money, no luck and no opportunities	Nobody loves you when you're down and out.	The neglect of social security as a vital point in state policies leaves homeless people down and out, with little chance for improving their bleak prospects.
evp	downhill	adverb	1	C2	toward the bottom of a hill or slope	It's much easier to go downhill on a bike.	Skiing downhill in deep snow is the most rewarding experience.
evp	downhill	adverb	2	C2	to gradually become worse	After his wife died, his health started to go downhill.	He had been going downhill in the last few days and so his death came as no surprise.
evp	download	verb	1	A2	to copy computer programs, music or other information electronically, especially from the Internet or a larger computer	I've downloaded the program.	I left my computer in your sister's room as she wanted to download some songs from it to her laptop.
evp	download	noun	1	B1	a computer program, music or other information that has been or can be downloaded	a free download	
evp	downside	noun	1	C1	the disadvantage of a situation	The downside of living in a city is all the pollution.	However, there is a downside to it as more and more products are exported/imported, domestic economies lose a lot trying - and usually failing - to face the competition that is coming from other countries.
evp	downstairs	adverb	1	A2	to or on a lower floor of a building, especially the ground floor	I ran downstairs to see who was at the door.	While I was in your house, your mom called me to help her carry some stuff, so I left my purse on your bed, and went downstairs to help her.
evp	downstairs	adjective	1	B1	on or at a lower floor of a building, especially the ground floor	The burglars got in through a downstairs window.	Every year when winter comes, our heating doe]sn' work very well. [The] upstairs rooms are ok, but the downstairs rooms are cold.
evp	down-to-earth	adjective	1	C1	Down-to-earth people or ideas are practical and work well.	I like your down-to-earth approach to problem-solving.	His huge popularity mainly lies in his down-to-earth attitude.
evp	downtown	adverb	1	A2	to the central part or main business area of a city	If we go downtown we can take the bus.	Yesterday I went downtown to buy some clothes.
evp	downtown	adjective	1	B1	in or at the central part or main business area of a city	downtown Chicago	I will be waiting for you at the new downtown restaurant, don't forget that!
evp	downward	adjective	1	C1	moving toward a lower position	a downward trend	Company B's profit marks a downward tendency from 1990 to 2000, going from a 2 million dollar profit to the extreme result of no profit at all.
evp	downward	adjective	2	C2	a situation which is getting worse very quickly, and which is difficult to control	After his death, the family went into a downward spiral.	Unemployment is one of the major problems of our society. It is the first step of a downward spiral.
evp	downward	adverb	1	C1	toward a lower place or level	The road slopes downward to the river.	Water runs downward into the turbine when the valve is open.
evp	dozen	noun	1	B1	twelve	a dozen eggs	We were a dozen people.
evp	dozen	noun	2	C1	a lot	She's got dozens of friends.	There are, as well, dozens of robots able to handle any kind of work in our homes.
evp	Dr.	noun	1	A2	a title for someone who is a medical doctor or a Doctor of Philosophy	I have an appointment with Dr. Tay.	Dr. Ahuja has placed a virus in a suitcase.
evp	draft	noun	1	B2	a piece of writing or a plan that is not yet in its finished form	This is only a rough draft - the finished article will have pictures as well.	Now I can use my computer for making monthly reports at home and making different kinds of project drafts.
evp	draft	noun	2	C1	a current of cold air in a room	I felt a cold draft every time the door opened.	Also, there is a draft in the house] be]caus wind is blow]in around the house, which makes us feel cold, which is harmful for my child especially.
evp	draft	verb	1	C1	to produce a piece of writing or a plan that you intend to change later	to draft a letter	My job is to present an advertising material draft that will be edited by our customer's representative.
evp	drag	verb	1	B1	to move something on a computer screen using a mouse	Drag the highlighted text to the new window.	
evp	drag	verb	2	B1	to move something on a computer screen using a mouse and place it where you want it to be	drag and drop exercises	
evp	drag	verb	3	B2	to pull someone or something along the ground, usually with difficulty	Pick the chair up instead of dragging it behind you!	Another man approached the agent, both watching as officers dragged the man to a nearby car.
evp	drag	verb	4	C2	to make someone go somewhere they do not want to go	She dragged me along to look at shoes with her.	When she first saw him, speaking his radical views at some sort of political meeting she had been dragged along to by a friend, she was at first scared but later enchanted.
evp	drag	verb	5	C2	to continue for too much time in a boring way	The play dragged during the second act.	The afternoon dragged on interminably, and I suddenly felt like going out.
evp	drain	verb	1	C2	to remove the liquid from something, usually by pouring it away or allowing it to flow away	Drain the pasta and add the sauce.	Peter the Great ordered the swampy lands to be drained.
evp	drain	verb	2	C2	If something drains, liquid flows away or out of it.	Don't bother drying the pans - just leave them to drain.	The sink doesn't drain, which is a major problem for me.
evp	drain	verb	3	C2	to reduce or cause something to reduce	The long war had drained the resources of both countries.	These people drain government funds that can be used to deal with unemployment.
evp	drain	verb	4	C2	to make someone very tired	The long journey drained him.	Especially when you've had a hard day at work, when the constant high temperature drains the energy from you, or when you're not feeling well because of any other reason, you need that comforting phone call from your best friend more than ever.
evp	drain	noun	1	C2	a pipe or hole that takes away waste liquids or water	She poured the dirty water down the drain.	I wish to put forward some ideas, which I think can help: checking the area and surroundings, making sure there is no garbage lying around; cleaning the fallen leaves etc. from the drains.
evp	drain	noun	2	C2	something that uses a lot of money or energy	Taking care of his sick mother was quite a drain on him.	This need results in an ever increasing drain on the country's resources.
evp	drain	noun	3	C2	If money or work goes down the drain, it is wasted.	If you leave the school now, all your hard work will go down the drain.	All those evening conversations and the investment of 100,000 yen went down the drain, I thought.
evp	drama	noun	1	B1	a play in a theater or on television or radio, or plays and acting generally	She's been in several television dramas.	It was a drama club.
evp	drama	noun	2	B1	an event or situation, especially an unexpected one, in which there is worry or excitement and usually a lot of action	We had a little drama last night when the oil in the pan caught fire.	Fortunately he found my ring] How happy I was! The drama was over!
evp	dramatic	adjective	1	B2	very sudden or noticeable, or full of action and excitement	a dramatic change/improvement	His suicide at the end of the book was the most dramatic event in this story and has touched me deeply.
evp	dramatically	adverb	1	B2	suddenly or obviously	Your life changes dramatically when you have a baby.	She fell dramatically to the floor.
evp	drastic	adjective	1	C1	severe and sudden or having very noticeable effects	drastic measures	If within 30 days I don't receive any kind of compensation (preferably money), I may have to take drastic measures.
evp	drastically	adverb	1	C1	in a drastic way	The number of bees has drastically declined due to a combination of factors.	Conditions have changed drastically after the reunification.
evp	draw	verb	1	A1	to make a picture of something or someone with a pencil or pen	Jonathan can draw beautifully.	You have to bring pencils and sheets of paper to draw on.
evp	draw	verb	2	B2	to move in a particular direction, especially in a vehicle	The train slowly drew into the station/drew in.	I drew up at the gate of the house; the inside was in darkness and nobody seemed to be there.
evp	draw	verb	3	B2	to attract someone to a place or person	He's an excellent speaker who always draws a crowd.	Finally, I am sure that opening a swimming pool again would help to draw people living in the nearest villages to our town.
evp	draw	verb	4	B2	to make someone notice something or someone	Could I draw your attention to item number three on the agenda?	Thank you very much for drawing attention to this letter.
evp	draw	verb	5	B2	to consider the facts of a situation and make a decision about what is true, correct, likely to happen, etc.	I'd seen them together so often I drew the logical conclusion that they were husband and wife.	Since nobody ever heard from them again, we all drew the sad conclusion that they must be dead.
evp	draw	verb	6	B2	to become nearer in space or time	Her birthday's drawing nearer every day.	After two seconds he heard a door opening and his mother drawing near.
evp	draw	verb	7	C2	to pull something or someone gently in a particular direction	He took her hand and drew her toward her sister.	As she drew me into the house she would tell me a story about Dari's absence and the newly born puppies of Dari's, almost whispering into my ears as my eyes welled up with tears.
evp	draw	verb	8	C2	to be almost finished	At last the concert drew to a close.	As the dinner drew to an end, our weariness became all too clear.
evp	draw	verb	9	C2	to say that there is a similarity or difference between two things	We need to draw a distinction between criticism and insults.	A country should not be visited only to enable the tourist to draw a comparison between his country and the foreign one.
evp	draw	verb	10	C2	If someone says they know where to draw the line, they are talking about knowing at what point an activity or situation becomes unacceptable because it is wrong or too extreme	I’ll do what I can to help a friend, but I draw the line when someone asks me to lie for them.	For these parents, drawing the line at certain behaviors became a synonym for lack of democracy, and a source of struggle at home.
evp	draw	verb	11	C1	to use information or your knowledge or experience of something to help you do something	His novels draw heavily on his childhood.	This report looks at the changes in eating habits in Italy, drawing on personal experience, magazine and newspaper articles and interviews with local people of different ages.
evp	draw	verb	12	C1	to prepare something, usually a plan, list, or an official agreement, by writing it	She drew up a list of contestants.	Government bodies have drawn up plans to educate people and explain to them why it is so important to keep our planet safe and clean.
evp	drawback	noun	1	C1	a problem or disadvantage	The only drawback to this camera is its price.	Both perspectives are important, but, overall, the advantages of proper in-house teaching outweigh the drawbacks.
evp	drawer	noun	1	A2	a box-shaped container without a top which is part of a piece of furniture. It slides in and out to open and close and is used for keeping things in.	I keep my socks in the bottom drawer.	I think I left it in your drawer in the living room.
evp	drawing	noun	1	A2	the act of making a picture with a pencil or pen, or a picture made in this way	Rosie loves drawing.	My hobbies are singing, dancing, drawing, writing, reading and so on.
evp	dread	verb	1	C2	to feel worried or frightened about something that has not happened yet	I'm dreading the first day at my new school.	You could go through life regretting the past and dreading the future, and become a grumpy old man, or you could take it all as it comes, and enjoy every single moment.
evp	dreadful	adjective	1	B2	extremely bad or unpleasant	The food was bad and the service was dreadful.	What a dreadful nightmare!
evp	dream	noun	1	A2	a series of events or images that happen in your mind when you are sleeping	a bad dream	I thought it was a very strange dream but her dream wasn't strange it was nice.
evp	dream	noun	2	B1	something that you want to happen very much but that is not very likely	It's always been my dream to take flying lessons.	My dream was to become a professional singer.
evp	dream	noun	3	B2	to not notice things that are around you because you are thinking about something else		The first time I saw a fashion show, I was 10 years old and I was in a dream during the whole show.
evp	dream	noun	4	C2	bigger or better than anything you could imagine or hope for	The house was beyond my wildest dreams.	[It] was beyond my wildest dreams.
evp	dream	noun	5	C2	used to say that something is better than anything you could imagine or hope for	Never in my wildest dreams had I thought I would be offered a starring role in a Hollywood movie.	Not even in my wildest dreams could I have imagined that finding a diary was to have such fortunate consequences for me.
evp	dream	verb	1	A2	to experience events and images in your mind while you are sleeping	What did you dream about last night?	It ran, ran, and I screamed - I was dreaming, but it was very real.
evp	dream	verb	2	B1	to imagine something that you would like to happen	He never dreamed that one day he would become President.	I have always dreamed of becoming a famous tennis player]
evp	dream	verb	3	C2	used to say that you would not do something because you think it is wrong or silly	I wouldn't dream of asking him for a loan.	Many people wouldn't dream of spending hours in a kitchen preparing a complex meal.
evp	dress	noun	1	A1	a piece of clothing for women or girls which covers the top half of the body and hangs down over the legs	a long/short dress	I wore a new dress.
evp	dress	verb	1	A2	to put clothes on yourself or someone else, especially a child	My husband dresses the children while I make breakfast.	Maria started to dress, but her suit was not there!
evp	dress	verb	2	B1	to wear a particular type of clothes	I have to dress nicely for work.	The waiters dress in national clothes and are very kind.
evp	dressed	adjective	1	A2	wearing clothes and not naked	I usually get dressed before I eat breakfast.	While I got dressed he started to cook the dinner.
evp	dressed	adjective	2	B1	wearing clothing of a particular type	a well-dressed/casually dressed man	Last Saturday, there was a big party and everyone was well dressed.
evp	dresser	noun	1	A2	a piece of furniture with drawers for keeping clothes in	I keep my socks in the top drawer of the dresser.	I think I have left my notebook in your house. It's probably in your bedroom on the dresser.
evp	drink	noun	1	A1	a liquid or an amount of liquid which is taken into the body through the mouth	Would you like a drink of water/tea/juice?	I would like to have a drink.
evp	drink	noun	2	A2	alcoholic liquid	Whose turn is it to buy the drinks?	After the film we go and have a drink.
evp	drink	noun	3	C2	a strong alcoholic drink	I thought he could use a stiff drink after that car almost hit him.	Then, she prepared herself a stiff drink: gin and tonic with some ice, the very same one she used to have when Jack was there.
evp	drink	verb	1	A1	to take liquid into the body through the mouth	He drank three glasses of water.	You do not have to bring any food, but I['d be pleased if you could bring something to drink: wine, coke or something.
evp	drink	verb	2	A2	to drink alcohol	"Would you like a glass of wine?" "No thanks, I don't drink."	Did you drink or dance at the party?
evp	drive	verb	1	A1	to move or travel on land in a motor vehicle, especially as the person controlling the vehicle's movement	I'm learning to drive.	I need them to drive my car.
evp	drive	verb	2	B2	to make someone extremely annoyed	My mother-in-law has been staying with us this past week and she's driving me crazy.	It drove me crazy.
evp	drive	verb	3	C1	to make someone have a bad feeling or do something bad	The arguments drove her to leave home.	She would discover all about her affair with Lorraine's husband and the real cause that drove him to commit suicide.
evp	drive	verb	4	C2	to provide the power or energy that makes someone or something work	She was driven by greed and ambition.	On the other hand, we are reassured by large international corporations that everything is under control, but it is common knowledge that these capitalistic monsters are so driven by greed for money and power that they would say anything to calm down the public.
evp	drive	verb	5	C2	to force someone or something to leave a place	The supermarket has driven many small shops out of the area.	Unfortunately that kind of thinking led to many people being killed, wounded and made homeless and moreover driven out of their homeland.
evp	drive	noun	1	B1	a journey in a car	The drive from Boston to New York took four hours.	This restaurant is about a 1 hour drive from my home.
evp	drive	noun	2	B1	a part of a computer that can read or store information	Save your work on the C drive.	Then we learned how to install components like a Soundboard or a CD-Rom drive.
evp	drive	noun	3	C1	energy and determination to achieve things	She has drive and ambition.	They definitely have the drive and motivation to succeed.
evp	driver	noun	1	A2	someone who drives a vehicle	a bus/truck/taxi driver	If you don't know the place exactly ask the driver.
evp	driver's license	noun	1	A2	official permission for someone to drive a car, received after passing a driving test, or a document showing this	I have a clean driving licence.	At first we were scared that we won't be allowed to come in the club cause the club is aged by 18 years and normally you had to show your driver's license.
evp	drop	verb	1	B1	to fall or to allow something to fall	She dropped her keys.	Maybe this is the reason why I dropped my cup of tea.
evp	drop	verb	2	B1	to move something on a computer screen using a mouse and place it where you want it to be	drag and drop exercises	With simple mouse-clicks and by means of the well-known "drag-and-drop" method, this programme will enable you to select a fabric from the catalogue and "drop" it on a chair or couch, to see what they look like.
evp	drop	verb	3	B2	to move to a lower level, or cause something to move to a lower level	The water level in the flooded region has finally begun to drop.	Especially if you imagine that the number of heart-attacks was about 40% per year and for the last 3 years dropped down to 23%.
evp	drop	verb	4	B2	to stop doing or planning something, especially an activity	I'm going to drop yoga and do aerobics instead.	I think you shouldn't drop sports but on the other hand, if you drop sports and do music, it would be quite good as well.
evp	drop	verb	5	C1	to take someone or something to a place, usually by car as you travel somewhere else	I can drop you at the station on my way to work.	You had better hire a car or get to know somebody who can drop you there.
evp	drop	verb	6	C2	to stop talking about something, especially because it is annoying or upsetting someone	I don't want to talk about it any more - let's drop the subject.	
evp	drop	verb	7	C2	to die very suddenly	He just dropped dead.	We can enjoy our longer lives because we don't have to work until we drop dead.
evp	drop	noun	1	B1	a small round-shaped amount of liquid	I thought I felt a drop of rain.	I could only hear the drops against the window-pane.
evp	drop	noun	2	B2	a reduction in the amount or level of something	a drop in crime	It maintained the same level between 1998 and 2008 after a drop from 1996 to 1998.
evp	drop	noun	3	C1	a vertical distance down from somewhere to the ground	It's a drop of about 50 feet from the top of the cliff.	
evp	drop	noun	4	C2	a very small amount compared to the amount needed	My letter of protest was just a drop in the ocean.	I know I am a drop in the ocean, but I'm convinced it's the only way, my way, of contributing to improve education in Mexico.
evp	drought	noun	1	C2	a long period when there is no rain and people do not have enough water	A severe drought ruined the crops.	We have wars, revolutions, political unrest, famine, drought, pollution, etc. Some of our problems are difficult to solve.
evp	drown	verb	1	B2	to die because you are under water and cannot breathe, or to kill someone in this way	Two people drowned in a boating accident yesterday.	Those days we spent in Brazil were full of excitement and I certainly wouldn't mind doing it again - well, except for the episode in which you almost drowned when we went water-skiing.
evp	drown	verb	2	C2	If a loud noise drowns the sound of something else, it prevents that sound from being heard.	His voice was drowned out by the traffic.	It is furthermore impossible to listen to music as it is drowned by the noise.
evp	drug	noun	1	B2	any natural or artificially made chemical which is used as a medicine	anti-cancer/fertility/pain-killing drugs	A great many drug companies all over the world have reduced input of dangerous chemicals into rivers, lakes and seas.
evp	drug	noun	2	B2	any natural or artificially made chemical which is taken for pleasure, to improve someone's performance of an activity, or because a person cannot stop using it	illegal drugs	Of course, I have never taken drugs.
evp	drugstore	noun	1	B1	a store where you can buy medicines, other health products, make-up and products used for washing yourself	I can pick up the shampoo while I'm at the drugstore.	
evp	drum	noun	1	A2	a round, hollow musical instrument that you hit with your hand or a stick	a bass/snare/kettle drum	I am a very good drummer because I have played the drums for six years.
evp	drunk	adjective	1	B2	unable to behave or speak normally because of having had too much alcohol	He got very drunk at my sister's wedding.	So, I just sat down watching Julie and her monstrous friends drinking and acting like animals - they were all blind drunk!
evp	dry	adjective	1	A2	describes something that has no water or other liquid in, on, or around it	My hat kept my hair dry.	So when the clothes were dry, I called a taxi.
evp	dry	adjective	2	A2	with no or not much rain	a dry summer	It said: "My sweet darling, the weather here in Africa is hot and dry, but the nights are cold and lonely without you."
evp	dry	adjective	3	C1	Dry wine is not sweet.	I'd like a glass of dry white wine.	The only wine sold - a dry white wine of a very good quality - is the one made by the owners of the restaurant and I can assure you that it's worth trying it.
evp	dry	adjective	4	C1	Dry skin or hair does not feel soft or smooth.	My lips feel really dry.	She looked old, her skin was dry and her eyes so lucid... .
evp	dry	adjective	5	C2	If a book, talk, or subject is dry, it is not interesting.	His writing is always so dry and dull.	Facts and dates are dry and empty if teachers are not able to bring them to life.
evp	dry	verb	1	A2	to become dry, or to make something become dry	Will this paint dry by tomorrow?	I invited him to come inside and dry his clothes and have a cup of tea.
evp	dry	verb	2	C2	If a supply of something dries up, it ends.	The work dried up and he went out of business.	Nevertheless we must consider that a society with many people over sixty has its problems, such as retirement funds which have dried up.
evp	dual	adjective	1	C1	having two parts, or having two of something	dual nationality	I have dual nationality.
evp	dubious	adjective	1	C2	thought not to be completely true, honest, or legal	dubious evidence	He was blackmailed, his children were twice kidnapped and his wife was badly injured in mysterious and dubious circumstances.
evp	dubious	adjective	2	C2	not certain that something is good or true	He's dubious about the benefits of acupuncture.	As far as entertainers are concerned, I am rather dubious about their contribution to a better world.
evp	duck	noun	1	A2	a bird that lives by water, has webbed feet, a short neck and a large beak	We took some bread to feed the ducks.	There was a big lake, with a lot of ducks.
evp	duck	noun	2	C2	If criticisms, insults, etc. are like water off a duck's back to you, they do not affect you at all.	She calls him lazy and useless, but it's like water off a duck's back.	The main lesson I have learned is by looking at some people who have lived alone for most of their life and faced with neither contradiction nor argument, they stay in their ivory tower, so sure of their opinions that whatever you say is like water off a duck's back.
evp	due	adjective	1	B1	expected to happen, arrive, etc. at a particular time	What time is the next bus due?	It is my science assignment which is due on Tuesday, so I have no time to research and write it again.
evp	due	adjective	2	B1	because of	A lot of her unhappiness is due to boredom.	First of all, I want to say that France is the best place to cycle, due to its mountains and fantastic forests.
evp	due	adjective	3	B2	at a suitable time in the future	The results will be sent to you in due course.	I look forward to hearing from you in due course.
evp	due	adjective	4	C1	If you are due for something, it should happen very soon.	I'm due for a check-up at the dentist's.	The facilities and canteen are due for improvement too.
evp	due	adjective	5	C1	used to politely disagree with or give a negative opinion about something	I’ve been thinking about what you said and, with all due respect, I think you’re mistaken.	Finally we would like to point out two things that should be improved. The first one is entertainment, which, with all due respect, is very poor.
evp	due	adjective	6	C2	Something that is due to you is something that is owed to you or something you deserve.	He didn't get the praise and recognition that was due to him.	Slowly she walked into the living room, knowing that a big apology was due to her]
evp	due	adjective	7	C2	correct and suitable	He was fined for driving without due care and attention.	However, we should take due care not to make wrong assumptions and be prejudicial to others as a consequence.
evp	dull	adjective	1	B1	not interesting or exciting in any way; boring	She wrote dull, respectable articles for the local newspaper.	In my opinion the film was very boring because the story was poor and dull.
evp	dull	adjective	2	C1	not bright	dull colors	The color of our house from an outside view is dull yellow, and every time I look at it, it reminds me of the past so I would have it painted something brighter so that I would not feel bad.
evp	dumb	adjective	1	B2	stupid	a dumb idea/question	Please forgive me, I can be so dumb sometimes!
evp	dumb	adjective	2	C1	physically unable to talk	The child is deaf and dumb.	The first one is "Lessons of Piano". It is the story of a dumb woman who uses a piano to express her feelings and moods.
evp	dump	verb	1	C1	to put something somewhere to get rid of it, especially in a place where you should not put it	The company was fined for illegally dumping toxic chemicals.	In addition, society might be affected negatively by the refuse and garbage dumped by people.
evp	dump	verb	2	C2	to put something somewhere quickly and carelessly	Henry dumped his bag on the table and went upstairs.	Annabel dumped her school bag on the floor and threw herself onto her bed.
evp	dump	verb	3	C2	to suddenly end a romantic relationship	If he's so awful, why don't you just dump him?	I had just been dumped by a guy I thought I was in love with.
evp	dump	noun	1	C1	a place where people take things that they do not want	We took our old mattress to the dump.	We all took turns loading it and driving it off to the city dump, in our private cars.
evp	dump	noun	2	C2	a place that is dirty and messy	His room is a dump.	
evp	dump	noun	3	C2	to be unhappy	He looks a bit down in the dumps.	She felt happy when I was down in the dumps or in a fix and kept on being jealous of me concerning trivial matters.
evp	duration	noun	1	C1	the amount of time that something lasts	The singer remained in the hotel for the duration of his stay in the UK.	If you are between 18 and 30 years old, we offer you a wide range of jobs with a duration varying from two weeks to three months.
evp	dust	noun	1	B1	dry dirt in the form of powder that covers surfaces inside a building, or very small dry pieces of soil, sand or other substances	The furniture was covered in dust.	Also, in the countryside there are more bugs and dust than in the city.
evp	dusty	adjective	1	B1	covered with dust	a dusty old chair	Not a sound could be heard in the dusty street except for the continuous roar of my almost useless pick-up.
evp	duty	noun	1	B1	something that you have to do because it is part of your job, or something that you feel is the right thing to do	I felt it was my duty to tell them the truth.	It is not enjoyable if you look at it as a duty.
evp	duty	noun	2	B2	something you do as part of your job or because of your position	professional/official duties	And it is the most important duty of the local police to keep an eye on hooligans.
evp	duty	noun	3	B2	If someone such as a doctor or a soldier is on duty, they are working, and if they are off duty, they are not working.	What time are you off/on duty tomorrow?	I was on duty in front of the major's house with another soldier.
evp	duty-free	adjective	1	B1	Duty-free goods are things you can buy and bring into a country without paying tax.	I bought some duty-free perfume at the airport.	We went to get some alcohol in a duty-free shop.
evp	DVD	noun	1	A1	digital versatile disc or digital video disc: a disc used for storing and playing music, films or information	I've got a DVD of the first series.	ALL our friends were there and I got a new DVD!
evp	dynamic	adjective	1	B2	full of ideas, energy and enthusiasm	She's young and dynamic and will be a great addition to the team.	I am a cheerful, dynamic and hardworking person.
evp	dynamic	adjective	2	C2	continuously changing or moving	a dynamic economy	Consequently, the country has a less dynamic economy.
evp	eager	adjective	1	B2	wanting to do or have something very much	She sounded very eager to meet you.	We are six Italian teenagers eager to meet new people.
evp	eagerly	adverb	1	B2	in an eager way	an eagerly awaited announcement	I'm eagerly waiting for your reply.
evp	eagerness	noun	1	B2	when you are eager to do something	In their eagerness to find a solution, they have overlooked certain difficulties.	I really admire your stamina, your commitment and your eagerness to pursue a career as one of the youngest vice presidents ever in the company, but is it really worth it?
evp	eagle	noun	1	B2	a large, strong bird with a curved beak that hunts smaller animals		For many animals zoos are the only hope for survival: for example the Chinese panda or white eagle.
evp	ear	noun	1	A1	one of the two body parts on your head that you hear with	She leaned over and whispered something in his ear.	My friend Maria gave me a dog. It's a cocker and has long ears.
evp	ear	noun	2	B2	to be very surprised when you hear what someone says	I couldn't believe my ears when Dan said they were getting married.	I couldn't believe my ears. All my wishes had come true.
evp	ear	noun	3	C1	to be good at hearing, repeating, or understanding a particular type of sound	He has no ear for music.	In terms of communication I believe that I have an ear for languages.
evp	ear	noun	4	C2	to play a piece of music by remembering the notes	She played all the songs by ear.	As the years went by, she found it hard to cope with her slow headway in classical piano and her endlessly unfinished songs played by ear.
evp	ear	noun	5	C2	to decide how to deal with a situation as it develops	I'm not sure what to tell Dad - I'll just have to play it by ear.	On the way to Cambridge, I had made up my mind to play it by ear.
evp	ear	noun	6	C2	If advice or a request falls on deaf ears, people ignore it.	Our pleas for help fell on deaf ears.	His cry for help and for a more meaningful relationship between himself and Mildred invariably fell on deaf ears.
evp	earache	noun	1	B1	pain in your ear	He was suffering from earache.	I feel ill and I've got earache.
evp	early	adverb	1	A1	near the beginning of a period of time, process, etc.	I get up early during the week.	He loves to get up early in the morning.
evp	early	adverb	2	A2	before the usual time or the time that was arranged	If you finish early, you can go home.	We'll finish it early.
evp	early	adjective	1	A2	near the beginning of a period of time, process, etc.	the early 1980s	Tomorrow please come in the early morning.
evp	early	adjective	2	B1	before the usual time or the time that was arranged	I'm going to have an early night.	I have been thinking about early retirement.
evp	early	adjective	3	C2	in the first stage or part of something	It was a great race for Neil, who took the lead early on.	What luck that I found such a yardstick early on in my childhood.
evp	earn	verb	1	A2	to receive money for doing work	She earns about $50,000 a year.	We can wash cars to earn some money for the necessary materials.
evp	earn	verb	2	B2	to have enough money for the things you need from doing your work	You can't expect to earn a living from your painting.	We work to earn a living.
evp	earn	verb	3	C2	to get something that you deserve because of your work, qualities, etc.	As a teacher you have to earn the respect of your students.	In Japan they always had to keep a certain image to earn the respect they deserved but in that house they could set free their emotions.
evp	earnings	noun	1	B2	money that you get for working	Average earnings for skilled workers are rising.	Finally, I think that publishers are so worried about their earnings that they don't pay attention to new writers.
evp	earring	noun	1	A2	a piece of jewelry that you wear on or through your ear	gold/silver earrings	It is a gold earring and it is on the table I think.
evp	earth	noun	1	B1	the planet that we live on	The Earth takes approximately 365 days to go round the Sun.	I like it because it is the best football on Earth!
evp	earth	noun	2	B2	soil or ground	The ploughed earth looked rich and dark.	At the same time, the two sisters began to throw earth and stones.
evp	earth	noun	3	C1	used when you are extremely surprised, confused, or angry about something	Why on earth didn't you tell me before?	How on earth can you have a coach without a toilet?
evp	earthquake	noun	1	B2	a sudden movement of the Earth's surface, often causing severe damage	A powerful earthquake struck eastern Turkey last night.	Human beings are afraid of dangers such as a tornado or earthquake.
evp	ease	noun	1	B2	If you do something with ease, it is easy for you to do it.	She won the 400m race with ease.	She finally left the small village in the pursuit of her goal, which she achieved with relative ease.
evp	ease	noun	2	B2	feeling relaxed and comfortable	I felt completely at ease with him.	You and uncle James made me feel at ease when I was there.
evp	ease	noun	3	C1	to say something that will help someone to stop worrying	I was worried about the test, but the nurse explained everything and put my mind at ease.	To drive, even though only for 30 minutes, might give you confidence for the driving test and put your mind at ease.
evp	ease	noun	4	C2	feeling anxious and not relaxed	He looked ill at ease in the room full of reporters.	I was a bit annoyed, or rather, ill at ease at first; but his kindness soon made me feel relaxed in his company.
evp	easily	adverb	1	A2	with no difficulty or effort	I can easily get some food on the way home tonight, if you'd like.	There are a lot of mountains and the weather is lovely. You can easily get there by bus.
evp	easily	adverb	2	C1	used to emphasize that something is likely	A comment like that could easily be misunderstood.	In conclusion, even if products seem to be the same in many countries, there are more differences left between them, which fortunately will not easily change in the future, such as landscapes and scenery.
evp	easily	adverb	3	C2	certainly the best/worst/biggest, etc.	It was easily the biggest dog I have ever seen.	In conclusion, the percentage of newly employed make up easily the biggest proportion of UK university students who graduated in 2001.
evp	east	noun	1	A2	the direction that you face to see the sun rise, opposite the west	The points of the compass are North, South, East and West.	
evp	east	noun	2	A2	the part of an area that is further toward the east than the rest	Her home is in the east of France.	You can visit the east of the town.
evp	east	noun	3	B2	the countries of Asia	She spent her childhood in the East - mostly in China and Japan.	
evp	east	adjective	1	A2	in or forming the east part of something	New York is east of Chicago.	I'll visit the romantic Robin Hood's Bay on the east coast of England.
evp	east	adverb	1	A2	toward the east	They sailed further east.	We went e]as to Oslo.
evp	eastern	adjective	1	B1	in or from the east part of an area	The eastern part of the country is very mountainous.	After that you can catch a train which takes you to the eastern part of Switzerland.
evp	eastern	adjective	2	B2	in or from the countries of Asia	Buddhism and other Eastern religions fascinate me.	I would like to know if the restaurant has Eastern or Asian food]
evp	easy	adjective	1	A1	not difficult	an easy exam	It's very easy.
evp	easy	adjective	2	C1	to do what is easiest in a difficult situation	I know you don't approve of his working methods, but why not take the easy way out this time and agree to his request?	On the other hand you cannot survive without your pay-check and to be able to both make a career and have the time to be green, sometimes you just have to take the easy way out.
evp	easy	adverb	1	B1	to relax and not use too much energy	After his heart attack, he had to take things easy for a while.	Take it easy and see you soon.
evp	easy	adverb	2	C1	used to say that something seems like a good idea but it would be difficult to do	I want to ask her out, but it's easier said than done.	I know it's easier said than done but you have to try.
evp	easygoing	adjective	1	B1	usually relaxed and calm, not worried or upset	My brother is easygoing, but I'm the excitable type.	She was friendly, easygoing and sociable, and I enjoyed my free time with her.
evp	eat	verb	1	A1	to put food into your mouth and then swallow it	Who ate all the cake?	I want to go to the river and eat a big chocolate cake.
evp	eat	verb	2	A1	to have a meal	We usually eat at about 7 o'clock.	I go there to eat whenever I have time.
evp	eat	verb	3	B1	to eat in a restaurant	When I lived in Spain, I used to eat out all the time.	If you don't have any plans next weekend, I want to eat out with you.
evp	eat	verb	4	B2	to eat all the food you have been given	Be a good boy and eat up your dinner.	There wasn't any more time after eating it up.
evp	eccentric	adjective	1	C2	behaving in a strange and unusual way	an eccentric professor	Celebrities become eccentric to the point of godlike insanity.
evp	echo	verb	1	C2	If a sound echoes, or a place echoes with a sound, you hear the sound again because you are in a large, empty space.	Their voices echoed around the room.	Our cheer of delight united with the neighing of the horses and the din of the hens still echoes in my ears.
evp	echo	verb	2	C2	to repeat something that someone else has said or to express ideas or feelings similar to those of someone else	This report echoes some of the earlier research I've read.	I find myself echoing many of the points you have raised.
evp	echo	noun	1	C2	a sound that you hear more than once after it hits a surface in a big space	I could hear the echo of the bell.	You can always hear the echo of a bell.
evp	ecological	adjective	1	B2	relating to ecology or the environment	The destruction of the rain forests is an ecological disaster.	There are ecological, technical, and social problems.
evp	ecologically	adverb	1	B2	in a way that relates to ecology or the environment	It's an ecologically friendly/sound means of transport.	
evp	ecology	noun	1	C1	the relationship between living things and the environment, or the scientific study of this	The oil spill caused terrible damage to the fragile ecology of the coast.	This solution supports business - well, then it's up to the residents to choose either business or ecology.
evp	economic	adjective	1	B2	relating to trade, industry and money	We have seen ten years of economic growth.	Nowadays there are economic problems in many countries.
evp	economical	adjective	1	B2	not using a lot of money, fuel,  etc.	What's the most economical way of heating this building?	Moreover a bike is a very economical means of transport because it does not need any fuel.
evp	economics	noun	1	B1	the study of the way in which trade, industry and money are organized	She's in her third year at York University, studying economics .	I am 20 years old and I am studying economics at university in Berlin.
evp	economist	noun	1	B2	a person who studies or has a special knowledge of economics		I discovered that one of the examiners was a very famous economist.
evp	economy	noun	1	B2	the system by which a country produces and uses goods and money	the German/US economy	As China's economy is growing fast, we will run low on resources soon.
evp	edge	noun	1	B1	the part of something that is farthest from the center	He'd piped fresh cream around the edge of the cake.	Finally, I managed to move my right foot closer to the edge.
evp	edge	noun	2	B2	the part of a blade of a knife or tool that cuts, or any sharp part of an object which could cut	Careful with that open can - it's got a very sharp edge.	When I sat down, I didn't notice that the seat in front of me was broken on the side, and when it was time for me to get off the bus, I cut my hand on the sharp edge.
evp	edge	noun	3	C2	to be slightly better than someone or something else	Because of her experience she has an edge over the other applicants.	Reading the latest information, attending conferences and symposiums and being well informed in general about your field, gives you an edge over your competitors.
evp	edge	noun	4	C2	to be nervous or worried	Sorry for shouting - I'm a little on edge today.	I was consequently on edge all the time and was not able to have fun as much as the others did.
evp	edible	adjective	1	C1	safe to eat and not harmful	edible berries	Part of your journey can be made through the forests where you can pick up some edible berries and wild mushrooms but be careful, you may need the local guide to help you with decisions there.
evp	edit	verb	1	B2	to prepare text, film, etc. by deciding what to include and by correcting mistakes	Janet edited books for a variety of publishers.	If you can edit these errors, I would appreciate it]
evp	edition	noun	1	B2	a book, newspaper, etc. that is one of several that are the same and were produced at the same time	a new edition	With reference to your advertisement in Thursday's edition of the Daily Star, I am interested in applying for the position of babysitter.
evp	editor	noun	1	B2	a person who corrects or changes text, film, etc., or a person who is in charge of a newspaper or magazine	She's a senior editor in the reference department of a publishing company.	It seems to me that you don't take your job as seriously as every reader expects from an objective and informative newspaper editor.
evp	educate	verb	1	B2	to teach someone in a school, college or university	She was educated at Crown Woods preparatory school.	Occasionally, students are not being educated equally. I strongly believe that students have to have the right to choose their subjects.
evp	educate	verb	2	B2	to give people information about something so that they understand it better	The government said it is trying to do more to educate the public about the consequences of drug abuse.	Therefore, in my opinion, if people had been educated to love and respect nature, zoos would have already been abolished.
evp	education	noun	1	B1	the process of teaching or learning in a school or college, or the knowledge that you get from this	primary/secondary/adult/university/higher education	She wanted me to tell her about people, education, life and history.
evp	educational	adjective	1	B2	providing education or relating to education	educational toys	There is also an educational advantage to having zoos.
evp	effect	noun	1	B1	the result of a particular influence	The accident had a big effect on her life.	The next day, my teacher asked me to stand in front of all the students and then she told my classmates that being honest could always bring us a gift or have a fantastic effect on our life.
evp	effect	noun	2	B1	a sound, image, etc. that is created artificially	It's got to be thirty seconds long, and we can use whatever sound effects we like.	The film was amazing, with excellent special effects and good actors.
evp	effect	noun	3	C1	to begin, or to start to produce results or changes	The medicine should take effect quickly.	Some factories tried to organize transport means for the employees, but it took effect in small towns only, where people travel shorter distances.
evp	effect	noun	4	C1	make little/no difference	The new measures have had little effect on ordinary people's lives.	As for the weather, it was only a five-minute shower that soon passed over and therefore had no effect on the show.
evp	effect	noun	5	C2	used to say what the real situation is	This means, in effect, that the plan has been scrapped.	However, if the government increases the amount of money they pay to the unemployed, that in effect means higher taxes for the citizens which will cause strikes and various other problems.
evp	effect	noun	6	C2	to begin being used	New food safety rules went into effect on Monday.	In conclusion, I believe that if these suggestions are put into effect they will improve life for younger people, as youths will have the ability to gather in a place and spend their time as they like.
evp	effective	adjective	1	B2	successful or achieving the results that you want	effective management	To be honest, I don't think it's very effective, but we have to do something against fat.
evp	effectively	adverb	1	B2	in a way that is successful and achieves what you want	Teachers need to be able to communicate ideas effectively.	As well as learning English, we should be aware of the cultures of many countries in order to be able to communicate more effectively.
evp	effectiveness	noun	1	C1	the degree to which something achieves its intended result	There are doubts about the effectiveness of the drug.	If this is done, the effectiveness of the lessons will no doubt be increased.
evp	efficiency	noun	1	B2	when someone or something uses time and energy well, without wasting any	What is so impressive about their society is the efficiency of the public services.	Finally, I think modern technology makes me do my business faster, with much more efficiency.
evp	efficient	adjective	1	B1	working or operating quickly and effectively in an organized way	The city's transportation system is one of the most efficient in Europe.	The staff were so courteous and efficient, and the atmosphere was intimate and relaxing.
evp	efficiently	adverb	1	B2	quickly and effectively in an organized way	She runs the business very efficiently.	Needless to say, the computer plays a key role in making us use a library efficiently.
evp	effort	noun	1	B1	an attempt to do something	If we could all make an effort to keep this office neater it would help.	So they planned everything and they didn't have to make an effort as the stupid "kidnapper" was walking my dog round the park before the meeting so they arrested him and I got my dog back.
evp	effort	noun	2	B1	the energy that you need to do something	They've put a lot of effort into getting the design of the magazine right.	We climbed a mountain and it was so hard, but the effort was worth it because the view was beautiful.
evp	egg	noun	1	A1	an oval object with a hard shell which is produced by female birds, especially chickens, and which is eaten as food	a hard-boiled/soft-boiled egg	I like to eat soup, eggs, meat and salad, and drink orange juice.
evp	egg	noun	2	B2	an oval object with a hard shell that contains a baby bird, insect or other creature	The cuckoo lays her egg in another bird's nest.	The only thing they can do is to lay eggs.
evp	egg	noun	3	C2	a sum of money that has been saved or kept for a specific purpose	She used her nest egg to buy a really good piano.	She was the only heir of a rich family and her husband, who died ten years ago, left her a sizeable nest egg.
evp	eggplant	noun	1	B2	an oval, purple vegetable that is white inside	For dinner we had eggplant parmigiana - eggplant with tomato sauce and cheese.	
evp	eight	noun	1	A1	the number 8	She was eight years old when her family moved here.	I will arrive at eight in the morning.
evp	eighteen	noun	1	A1	the number 18	seventeen, eighteen, nineteen	I want to sell a bike. It is eighteen years old.
evp	elaborate	adjective	1	C2	complicated, detailed, or made carefully from many parts	an elaborate ceremony	A nurse was standing nearby, adjusting an intravenous vial suspended by an elaborate array of tubes.
evp	elapse	verb	1	C2	If time elapses, it passes.	Two years have elapsed since we last saw him.	Now that such a long period of time has elapsed and nothing has changed we have decided to write to you.
evp	elated	adjective	1	C2	extremely happy and excited	We were elated by/at the news.	When the show was over and I staggered from the scene I found myself in some kind of rose-tinted daze, elated by the sheer joy that, at least for me, only music can bring.
evp	elbow	noun	1	B1	the part in the middle of your arm where it bends	Her arm was bandaged from the elbow to the fingers.	I was sure I would have a beautiful bruise on my elbow.
evp	elderly	adjective	1	B1	a more polite word for "old," used to describe people	elderly relatives/parents	This short story is about a man who is accused of having murdered a rich elderly widow.
evp	elderly	noun	1	C1	people who are elderly	The city is building new housing for the elderly.	I also heard complaints from the elderly, fearing the city streets due to the traffic, something that would not be resolved by a central parking lot, and certainly the elderly would be the ones worst affected by increased pollution, with their less effective immune systems.
evp	elect	verb	1	B2	to choose someone for a particular job or position by voting	He was elected president in 1997.	In 1987 a young girl, Cecilia Bolocco, was elected Miss Chile.
evp	election	noun	1	B1	a time when people vote in order to choose someone for a political or official job	a presidential election	The film shows very different things about the American election.
evp	electric	adjective	1	A2	Electric lights, tools, etc. work using electricity.	an electric car/heater	I like rock music so if you want I can play my electric guitar at your concert.
evp	electric	adjective	2	B1	supplying electricity	an electric plug/outlet	The weight of the snow broke the branches of the trees and some branches fell on electric cables, breaking them.
evp	electric	adjective	3	C1	full of excitement and emotion	The atmosphere backstage was electric.	That was on Friday night, and o] my way to the stadium where the concert was taking place I started to feel the electric atmosphere.
evp	electrical	adjective	1	B1	related to or working using electricity	electrical wiring/equipment	Japan is famous for electrical things, and you can buy them cheaper than you do in other countries.
evp	electrical	adjective	2	C1	relating to the production and supply of electricity	electrical engineering	As an electrical engineer, computer training is very important to me in several ways.
evp	electrician	noun	1	B2	someone whose job is to put in, check or repair electrical wires and equipment	We have an electrician coming to put some new outlets in.	The following day we had to call an electrician in because my brother had broken down the lighting in the whole house.
evp	electricity	noun	1	A2	a type of energy that can produce light and heat, or make machines work	The electricity has been turned off.	You can also see how life is in our African villages, where there is no electricity or gas and where water comes only from the river.
evp	electronic	adjective	1	B1	Electronic equipment consists of things such as computers, televisions, and radios.	electronic components/devices	I like buying clothes, but I prefer buying some other stuff like electronic devices or that sort of thing.
evp	electronic	adjective	2	B1	done by computers	electronic communication	On the other hand, many people argue about the security of an electronic transaction and also that not many people have Internet access.
evp	electronically	adverb	1	B2	in a way that uses electronic equipment, especially a computer	electronically generated graphics	I hope that you can subscribe to the Internet as well so that we can communicate electronically.
evp	electronics	noun	1	B2	the scientific study of electric current and the technology that uses it	a degree in electronics	I am still studying electronics and computer science.
evp	elegance	noun	1	C1	when someone or something is stylish or attractive in their appearance or behavior	We were impressed by the elegance of his clothes.	As with the sport I mentioned before, it also has the grace and elegance of a dancer and the technique, of course, of a skater.
evp	elegant	adjective	1	B2	stylish and attractive	She's a very elegant woman.	The building itself looks grand and elegant.
evp	elegantly	adverb	1	B2	in a way that is elegant	elegantly dressed	You should always be dressed elegantly.
evp	element	noun	1	B2	a part of something	List the elements which make up a perfect dinner party.	The main element of a novel is, of course, the story itself.
evp	element	noun	2	B2	a simple substance that cannot be reduced to smaller chemical parts, for example hydrogen	Iron is one of the elements of the Earth's crust.	Cars produce CO2 and this combining of chemical elements pollutes our environment and promotes the Greenhouse effect.
evp	element	noun	3	C2	a small amount of an emotion or quality	There's an element of truth in what she says.	I think the reason why I loved Marseille so much was because it brought an element of insecurity and danger into my life.
evp	elementary	adjective	1	B1	basic or relating to the early stages of studying a subject	students at elementary level	This book can be used by English students at an elementary level.
evp	elementary school	noun	1	B1	a school for children aged 5 to 11 or 13	I have two children in elementary school.	After I started to study (when I was attending the elementary school) and I also started to read comics especially "THE AMAZING SPIDERMAN."
evp	elephant	noun	1	A2	a very large, gray animal with big ears and a very long nose with which it picks things up		We saw elephants, tigers, snakes, monkeys... and in the afternoon we visited the museums.
evp	elevator	noun	1	A2	a machine that carries people up and down in tall buildings	Just take the elevator up to the fourth floor.	I can meet you at 7:00 pm near to the elevator.
evp	eleven	noun	1	A1	the number 11	nine, ten, eleven, twelve	I invited ten or eleven friends.
evp	eligible	adjective	1	C1	If you are eligible to do something, you can do it because you are in the right situation.	Only people over 18 are eligible to vote.	Hello, I am writing the following article, and I hope to be considered as eligible to win a Personal Computer, in response to your competition entry in the PC World magazine.
evp	eliminate	verb	1	C1	to remove something from something, or get rid of something	The doctor advised me to eliminate salt from my diet.	The parents should spend enough time with their offspring and teach them the good things and eliminate the bad things.
evp	eliminate	verb	2	C1	to defeat someone so that they cannot go any further in a competition	She was eliminated after the first round of the tournament.	
evp	elimination	noun	1	C2	when you eliminate someone or something	the elimination of disease/pain	Investments, education, birth control, political stability, jobs - all of these factors will contribute to the elimination of homelessness.
evp	elite	noun	1	C1	the richest, most powerful, or best educated group in a society	a member of the elite	But before you decide to become one of the elite, you should think about all the freedom you would be giving up and all the freedom you would get.
evp	else	adverb	1	A2	in addition to someone or something	Would you like anything else to eat?	If you need anything else, you'll find it in the classroom.
evp	else	adverb	2	A2	different from someone or something	I don't like it here. Let's go somewhere else.	I think we should go somewhere else to have a drink after the film.
evp	else	adverb	3	A2	other things or people	I forgot my toothbrush, but I remembered everything else.	As this year I turned 12 my mom and dad gave me 12 gifts and everyone else gave me clothes or money.
evp	else	adverb	4	B2	used to say what will happen if another thing does not happen	We must be there by six, or else we'll miss the beginning.	[He] told me to hurry up, or else I would miss my bus.
evp	elsewhere	adverb	1	B2	in or to another place	The report looks at economic growth in Europe and elsewhere.	As for communication with our relatives in Sweden or elsewhere, the fax-machine turned out to be an excellent invention.
evp	elusive	adjective	1	C2	difficult to describe, find, achieve, or remember	The answers to these questions remain as elusive as ever.	Nowadays, the picture of a clean environment seems to be an elusive goal moving ever further from us.
evp	e-mail	noun	1	A1	the system for using computers to send messages over the Internet	You can contact me by e-mail.	For example, if people live in different countries, they can use e-mail to keep in touch.
evp	e-mail	noun	2	A1	a message or document sent electronically	I got an e-mail from Danielle last week.	If you need anything else send me an e-mail.
evp	e-mail	verb	1	A2	to send a message using e-mail	E-mail me when you have time.	Phone me or e-mail me and tell me what you think.
evp	embarrass	verb	1	C2	to make someone feel ashamed or shy	My dad's always embarrassing me in front of my friends.	He didn't deliberately lie to them and he comes to the conclusion that revealing the truth would have embarrassed them.
evp	embarrassed	adjective	1	B1	feeling ashamed or shy	She felt embarrassed about undressing in front of the doctor.	I went to the first lesson last week and I have to admit I felt a bit embarrassed about doing some writing at the beginning of the lesson.
evp	embarrassing	adjective	1	B1	making you feel embarrassed	an embarrassing situation	The first lesson was very embarrassing for me, because I went late.
evp	embarrassment	noun	1	B2	when you feel embarrassed, or something or someone that makes you feel embarrassed	She blushed with embarrassment.	Looking at his face she could see his embarrassment.
evp	embassy	noun	1	B1	the official group of people who live in a foreign country and represent their government there, or the building where they work	the Swedish Embassy in London	He lent me his cell phone to call the embassy.
evp	embody	verb	1	C2	to represent an idea or quality exactly	He embodies the values of hard work and fair play.	The triffids, an aggressive and dangerous species, a serious threat to the existence of mankind, embody the author's fear of what could be the result of genetic mutation.
evp	embrace	verb	1	C1	to accept new ideas, beliefs, methods, etc. in an enthusiastic way	We are always eager to embrace the latest technology.	They seem to have embraced "the new deal" symbolizing "freedom".
evp	embrace	verb	2	C2	If you embrace someone, you put your arms around them, and if two people embrace, they put their arms around each other.	She embraced him warmly.	Prior to this fulfilling statement, the elderly couple had been sitting in their GP's waiting room, nervously embracing each other.
evp	embrace	noun	1	C2	when you put your arms around someone	a warm embrace	He took the baby home, nevertheless, and tried to learn how to deal with that quiet, funny-faced girl, who didn't seem to ask for anything but kisses and embraces.
evp	emerge	verb	1	B2	to appear from somewhere or come out from somewhere	She emerged from the sea, blue with cold.	The owner of these eyes emerged from a nearby door, which was shabby and old, like the rest of the street.
evp	emerge	verb	2	C1	to become known	It emerged that she had lied to her employers.	It emerged from the students' survey conducted during the recent protest that unhealthy food and little choice were the main reasons to complain, followed by high prices, unfriendly service and limited opening hours.
evp	emergency	noun	1	B1	a serious or dangerous situation that needs immediate action	Call him - it's an emergency.	We really need you. It's an emergency.
evp	eminent	adjective	1	C2	famous, respected, or important	an eminent historian	Last year I was awarded a trip abroad with one of the most eminent professors of our University.
evp	emission	noun	1	C1	when gas, heat, light, etc. is sent out into the air, or an amount of gas, heat, light, etc. that is sent out	Carbon dioxide emissions will be reduced by 20%.	One may argue from the point of linking CO2 emissions to other known pollutants, like industry, but recent studies have shown traffic to be one of the most important causes of air pollution.
evp	emit	verb	1	C2	to send out gas, heat, light, etc. into the air	The machine emits a high-pitched sound when you press the button.	All the vehicles and factories emit fumes, which cause grave diseases such as cancer.
evp	emotion	noun	1	B2	a strong feeling such as love or anger, or strong feelings in general	Like a lot of men, he finds it hard to express/show his emotions.	Unlike Annie Lennox, whose voice sounds so pure and full of emotion.
evp	emotional	adjective	1	B2	relating to emotions	a child's emotional development	Doctors have found that many health problems are linked with emotional changes in a person]' life.
evp	emotional	adjective	2	B2	having and expressing strong feelings	an emotional speech	It was so big and full of people that she felt very emotional.
evp	emotionally	adverb	1	B2	in a way that shows emotions or relates to emotions	She spoke emotionally about her experiences as a war correspondent.	After two days, Laura was emotionally and physically exhausted.
evp	empathy	noun	1	C2	the ability to imagine what it must be like to be in someone's situation	He lacks empathy.	I developed my intercultural skills by joining forces with foreign vice presidents to solve common problems and thus acquired skills such as empathy with other cultures, commitment to a common goal and tolerance.
evp	emperor	noun	1	C1	the male ruler of an empire	Emperor Charlemagne	I would certainly go, because it fascinates me how more or less 2,000 years ago, the Roman emperors could build up such a big empire.
evp	emphasis	noun	1	B2	the particular importance or attention that you give to something	There is a lot of emphasis on curing disease but too little emphasis on preventing it.	[I]n the tale "It's a good life", the author gives much more emphasis to Anthony than to anyone else in the story.
evp	emphasize	verb	1	B2	to show that something is especially important or needs special attention	She emphasized the need for a better diet.	To put it in a nutshell, I would like to emphasize the fact that I did not spend a "perfect evening out" at all.
evp	empire	noun	1	C1	a group of countries that is ruled by one person or government	the British Empire	All the Greeks can be very proud of him and have to hope that a general with unlimited skills like Alexander will make Greece an unstoppable and worldwide empire again.
evp	empire	noun	2	C1	a large group of businesses that is controlled by one person or company	a publishing empire	This concerns products like pizzas, French fries and of course hamburgers and the empire MacDonald's.
evp	empirical	adjective	1	C2	based on experience or scientific experiments and not only on ideas	empirical evidence	Nevertheless, empirical evidence confirms the importance of food in a country's culture.
evp	employ	verb	1	B1	to have someone work or do a job for you and pay them for it	How many people does your company employ?	As you know I am employed in a travel agency and last week I started my new English class.
evp	employ	verb	2	C1	to use something	Companies employ clever tactics to persuade us to buy their products.	A friend that I made on the course shares the same opinion and insists on the fact that the course gave us the opportunity to employ some of the techniques we practised in the "How to Negotiate" classes.
evp	employee	noun	1	B1	someone who is paid to work for someone else	The number of employees in the company has tripled over the past decade.	There is an exotic atmosphere, helped by the pictures on the walls and the clothes of the employees.
evp	employer	noun	1	B1	a person or organization that employs people	We need a reference from your former employer.	I took this English course and my employer said, if I pass my exam, he will give me a bonus of fifty pounds.
evp	employment	noun	1	B1	when someone is paid to work for a company or organization	full-time/part-time/temporary/permanent/regular employment	Furthermore, the stores need more employees to work at night, and therefore create employment.
evp	empty	adjective	1	A2	If something is empty, it does not contain any things or people.	an empty house/street	So I haven't got any empty space for the computer.
evp	empty	adjective	2	C1	having no meaning or value	an empty promise/threat	But on the other hand, I need to point out all the empty promises you made with your advertisements.
evp	enable	verb	1	B2	to make someone able to do something, or to make something possible	Computerization should enable us to cut production costs by half.	Furthermore, computers enable us to store any amount of necessary information, which probably would take plenty of room on our bookshelves, if in written form.
evp	enclose	verb	1	B2	to send something in the same envelope or parcel as something else	I enclose a map of the area.	I enclose a copy of my curriculum vitae, which will give you further details about my career to date.
evp	enclose	verb	2	C1	to be all around something and separate it from other things or places	The house is enclosed by parkland.	You know that Aragon is a deep valley which is enclosed by two ranges of mountains.
evp	encounter	verb	1	B2	to experience something unpleasant	We encountered quite a few problems at the beginning.	On the other hand, we could infer that teenage life is quite a good time, as there is no stress or anxiety that is usually encountered later on in life.
evp	encourage	verb	1	B1	to make someone more likely to do something, or to make something more likely to happen	We were encouraged to learn foreign languages in school.	I thought it would be great to go and I encouraged them to do it.
evp	encourage	verb	2	B1	to give someone confidence or hope	My parents encouraged me when things weren't going well at school.	We went into the ward and looked at her thinking all the happy thoughts we had with her and trying to encourage her to live.
evp	encouragement	noun	1	B2	when someone talks or behaves in a way that gives you confidence to do something	Children need lots of encouragement from their parents.	Children need some encouragement, which parents can provide at any time.
evp	encouraging	adjective	1	B2	giving you confidence or hope	The team's performance was very encouraging.	She spoke about young people that want to start this kind of career: she was so encouraging!
evp	end	noun	1	A1	the final part of something such as a period of time, activity, or story	I'll pay you at the end of next month.	At the end of the party we ate cake.
evp	end	noun	2	A2	the furthest part or final part of a place or thing	Our house is the third from the end on the left.	Go up until you get to the end of the road.
evp	end	noun	3	B1	finally, after something has been thought about or discussed a lot	We were thinking about going to Switzerland, but in the end we went to Austria.	Well I can only tell you what I would do, but in the end it's your choice.
evp	end	noun	4	B2	when something stops happening	They are calling for an end to the violence.	My job comes to an end in two weeks, and then I will have one month free, so it will be possible for me to go on your next trip to Africa.
evp	end	noun	5	B2	to make something stop happening or existing	He's determined to put an end to these rumors.	Maybe because I needed someone to know, or because I wanted to put an end to that feeling, and have a normal life.
evp	end	noun	6	B2	for hours/days, etc., without stopping	She practices the violin for hours on end.	You can find information on whatever issue you want, science, technology, business, arts, etc., everything is there, without mentioning the fantastic and simplified way of buying by internet or just surfing for hours on end for whatever thing you are interested in.
evp	end	noun	7	B2	a lot	I've had no end of trouble finding a hotel room.	I had no end of fun when we were going to the beach and the car stopped and we had to go on foot.
evp	end	noun	8	C1	to make something finish	The stories in the newspaper brought her career to a sudden end.	At the end of the year 2002 a great construction was brought to an end.
evp	end	noun	9	C1	to have just enough money to pay for the things that you need	I had to get a second job just to make ends meet.	Most students support themselves and barely make ends meet every month.
evp	end	noun	10	C2	If something is not the end of the world, it will not cause very serious problems.	It won't be the end of the world if I don't get this job.	
evp	end	noun	11	C2	to make someone start a new and difficult job or activity without helping them or preparing them for it	My first job was to organize a huge conference - they really threw me in at the deep end!	Sometimes we can be thrown in at the deep end and have qualms about making a decision.
evp	end	noun	12	C2	If you do something to/till/until the bitter end, you continue it until it is finished, although it is difficult and takes a long time.	The president fought for his plan to the bitter end.	We are willing to talk and find alternatives to the situation, but we are also ready to fight till the bitter end to stand for our rights.
evp	end	noun	13	C2	to be so tired, annoyed, or worried by something that you do not feel that you can deal with it	I’m at the end of my rope with these kids!	
evp	end	noun	14	C2	something that you do because it will help you to achieve something else	I didn't particularly like the job - it was just a means to an end.	Major international sports competitions can either be understood as a means to an end or an end in their own right.
evp	end	noun	15	C2	various items of different types that are not valuable or important	We moved most of the furniture to the new house, but there are still a few odds and ends to bring over.	The photograph spent some time there; in the drawer under the odds and ends everybody has.
evp	end	noun	16	C2	the last part of something	the tail end of the eighties	Both Olivia's and the narrator's stories show India at crucial times of its history: at the tail end of the "Raj" and at the initial stage of a modern and independent country.
evp	end	verb	1	A2	to finish or stop, or to make something finish or stop	When is your meeting due to end?	The course ends on 30th September.
evp	end	verb	2	B1	to finally be in a particular place or situation	They're traveling across Europe by train and are planning to end up
in Moscow.	After the movie we went for a drink and we ended up dancing salsa.
evp	endangered	adjective	1	B2	used of animals and plants which may soon disappear from the world because there are very few left alive	Tigers are now an endangered species.	Many endangered species have been saved by zoos which have been able to make them reproduce.
evp	ending	noun	1	B1	the last part of a story, film, etc.	People want love stories with happy endings.	This film is a typical romantic story with a happy ending.
evp	ending	noun	2	B1	a part added to the end of a word	To make the plural of "dog," you add the plural ending "-s."	
evp	endless	adjective	1	B2	never finishing, or seeming never to finish	We used to have endless arguments about politics.	No matter the efforts I made to finish it, it seemed that the work I had to do was endless.
evp	endorse	verb	1	C2	to say publicly that you support a person, product or action	The idea was endorsed by a majority of members.	Furthermore, I endorse entirely the view of the reader who tends to believe that modern buildings should be constructed but with the condition that the old buildings with incredibly important historical value will not be affected in any way.
evp	endurance	noun	1	C2	the ability to keep doing something difficult, unpleasant, or painful for a long time	a race to test athletes' endurance	What's more, athletes need endurance.
evp	endure	verb	1	B2	to suffer something difficult, unpleasant or painful	We had to endure a nine-hour delay at the airport.	In addition to this, I have been doing various kinds of sports including swimming and jogging, so I could endure a long trip.
evp	enemy	noun	1	B1	a person who you dislike or oppose	He's made a few enemies in this company.	I have made a lot of enemies.
evp	enemy	noun	2	B2	a country, or the armed forces of a country, which is at war with another country	enemy forces/territory	
evp	energetic	adjective	1	B2	having or involving a lot of energy	an energetic young woman	I am a cheerful and energetic person.
evp	energy	noun	1	B1	the power and ability to be very active without becoming tired	Looking after children takes up a lot of time and energy.	When we arrived there, I felt very tired. However, as soon as I saw the beautiful sea, I was able to regain my energy.
evp	energy	noun	2	B1	the power that comes from electricity, gas, etc.	It is important for us to save energy.	I thought of buying an air-conditioning unit] but it consumes too much energy, so I'm going to buy a fan] because it is very hot here.
evp	enforce	verb	1	C1	to make people obey a rule or law	It is the duty of the police to enforce the law.	Traffic police rarely enforce the law on public transport vehicles, which leads to a lot of chaos.
evp	engage	verb	1	C1	to interest someone in something and keep them thinking about it	The debate about food safety has engaged the whole nation.	It would be great if we could employ professional entertainers to set up activities to engage people and buy fun prizes and awards.
evp	engage	verb	2	C2	to take part in something	The two sides have agreed to engage in talks.	Quite to the contrary, advocates and opponents of these happenings have engaged in a hot debate concerning their "true" value.
evp	engaged	adjective	1	B1	having formally agreed to marry	Debbie and Chris just got engaged.	I'm engaged to him.
evp	engine	noun	1	A2	the part of a vehicle that uses energy from oil, electricity or steam to make it move	a jet/diesel engine	When we left there, I started my car but the engine didn't work.
evp	engineer	noun	1	A2	someone whose job is to design, build or repair machines, engines, roads, bridges, etc.	a civil engineer	I can help with the concert, because I'm a sound engineer!
evp	engineering	noun	1	B1	the work of an engineer, or the study of this work	Richard studied engineering at Manchester University.	His name is Marco and he is studying engineering.
evp	engrossed	adjective	1	C2	giving all your attention to something	He was so engrossed in what he was doing that he didn't hear the bell.	Youngsters these days are so engrossed in their studies that they do not have much free time to enjoy themselves or make use of the above ways of entertainment.
evp	enhance	verb	1	C1	to improve something	Winning that award greatly enhanced her reputation.	In addition, enhancing the reputation of the family might be another factor as well.
evp	enjoy	verb	1	A1	to get pleasure from something	I really enjoyed that movie/book/concert/party/meal.	I really enjoyed my party!
evp	enjoy	verb	2	A2	to get pleasure from something that you are doing	I think the party went well - people seemed to be enjoying themselves.	I'm sure you will enjoy yourself and will never regret visiting me and Azerbaijan.
evp	enjoy	verb	3	C2	to have or experience something good such as success	His play enjoyed great success on Broadway.	Before they can enjoy the flowers of success they have to endure the unbearable bitterness of failure.
evp	enjoyable	adjective	1	B1	An enjoyable event or experience gives you pleasure.	We had a very enjoyable evening - thank you!	First, thanks for the most enjoyable weekend of my life.
evp	enjoyment	noun	1	B2	when you enjoy something	Knowing the ending already didn't spoil my enjoyment of the film.	It is worth seeing because of the wonderful actors who play their roles with inspiration and enjoyment.
evp	enormous	adjective	1	B1	extremely large	an enormous car/house	It has two bedrooms, an enormous bathroom, a small kitchen and a nice living-room.
evp	enough	adverb	1	A2	as much as is necessary	Are you old enough to vote?	He didn't study enough.
evp	enough	adverb	2	B2	although it may seem strange	Strangely enough, I was just speaking to him the other day.	Today, strangely enough, people out on the sea, often local fishermen, see the complete castle, like a ghost.
evp	enough	adverb	3	B2	used for saying that you can understand and accept someone's opinion or decision	"He says he'll only work on Sunday if he gets paid extra." "Fair enough."	Most of the streets are open to cars and therefore people tend to escape to a little area around the pedestrian streets. Fair enough, but it makes those streets terribly overcrowded.
evp	enough	adverb	4	C2	used to say that something is more than is needed or wanted or has gone on too long	The play was dull and I decided enough is enough and left early.	I have been working very hard for the last eight years or so, but I think that enough is enough. Now I would like to get rid of some responsibilities at work and find more time to enjoy the things life offers and that have little to do with work: family, friends, hobbies.
evp	enough	adverb	5	C2	as expected	He said the book was on his desk, and sure enough, there it was.	And sure enough, these challenging problems come unsolicited most of the time.
evp	enrich	verb	1	C1	to improve the quality of something by adding something to it	Our culture has been enriched by the many immigrants who live here.	It can be of great assistance especially for those who start studying the Greek language and for those who want to enrich their knowledge, too.
evp	enter	verb	1	A2	to come or go into a place	The police entered through/by the back door.	Without that identity card I can't enter my school.
evp	enter	verb	2	B1	to take part in a competition, race or examination	Are you going to enter the photography competition?	I have entered a competition and I need your bike.
evp	enter	verb	3	B1	to put information into a computer, book or document	You have to enter a password to access the database.	You only have to click on the product you want and enter your credit card number.
evp	enterprise	noun	1	C1	a business or organization	private enterprise	I suppose that you didn't know about this, and I'd like to believe you will try to correct what is wrong, so that you will be able to establish your enterprise in a firm ground.
evp	enterprise	noun	2	C1	when someone is enthusiastic and willing to do something new and clever, although there are risks involved	They showed a great deal of enterprise in setting up this project.	I am talking about a frank and sincere young lady with enterprise.
evp	enterprise	noun	3	C2	a difficult and important plan	Putting on the concert will be a joint enterprise between the two schools.	She succeeded in whatever enterprises she undertook all through her life and even the death of her husband did not prevent her from carrying on.
evp	entertain	verb	1	B1	to keep a group of people interested or enjoying themselves	We hired a magician to entertain the children.	They always keep playing soft music to entertain the customers.
evp	entertainer	noun	1	B2	someone whose job is to entertain people by singing, telling jokes, etc.	He's a popular entertainer.	You could hire some entertainers.
evp	entertaining	adjective	1	B2	funny and enjoyable	an entertaining story/movie/talk	It is obvious that some people prefer reading books, while others claim that watching films is much more entertaining.
evp	entertainment	noun	1	B1	shows, movies, television, or other performances or activities that entertain people	There is live entertainment in the bar every night.	For evening entertainment or for shopping you can go to Luzern.
evp	enthusiasm	noun	1	B2	a feeling of energetic interest in a particular subject or activity and an eagerness to be involved in it	One of the good things about teaching young children is their enthusiasm.	I am filled with enthusiasm about spend]in two weeks at Camp California in the U.S.A.
evp	enthusiastic	adjective	1	B2	showing enthusiasm	You don't seem very enthusiastic about the party - don't you want to go tonight?	I've got a lot of friends who are really enthusiastic about cycling and we often go cycling together]
evp	enthusiastically	adverb	1	B2	in an enthusiastic way	She responded very enthusiastically to the idea.	She accepted my suggestion enthusiastically.
evp	entire	adjective	1	B2	whole or complete, with nothing missing	Between them they ate an entire cake.	On behalf of the entire school, I would like to put forward a number of suggestions in regard to the improvement of the reception area.
evp	entirely	adverb	1	B2	completely	I admit it was entirely my fault.	I would like to do something entirely different before I start to study again.
evp	entitle	verb	1	B2	to give someone the right to do or have something	I'm entitled to apply for citizenship.	In conclusion, I believe that I am entitled to a partial refund.
evp	entity	noun	1	C2	something which exists apart from other things	They want the area recognized as a separate political entity.	Even if these qualities are also quite useful in team sports, where the whole team works as an entity, a spirit of co-operation and teamwork is also needed in order to achieve the effective coexistence of all the players of the team.
evp	entrance	noun	1	A2	a door, gate, etc. by which you can enter a building or place	There are two entrances - one at the front and one around the back.	From my house you can get there by bus. There's a special one, and it'll take you up to the entrance of the park.
evp	entrance	noun	2	B1	the right to enter a place or join an organization	Entrance to the museum is free on Friday evenings.	If you've got membership, you don't need to pay for entrance. You only pay for the drinks and the food.
evp	entry	noun	1	B1	a separate piece of information that is recorded in a book such as a dictionary, or on the Internet	They've updated a lot of the entries on the website.	Later I got my own entry on their Clan-home-page.
evp	entry	noun	2	B1	the right or ability to come into or go into a place	She was refused entry.	
evp	entry	noun	3	B1	when you join an organization or take part in a competition	Are there lots of exams for entry into the legal profession?	As I already said I don't have any information about how to join the club, so I would appreciate very much if you could send me an entry form.
evp	entry	noun	4	B1	a piece of work that you do to try to win a competition	There have been a fantastic number of entries for this year's poetry competition.	
evp	envelope	noun	1	A2	a flat paper container for a letter	She ripped open the envelope.	Last night I left an envelope in your house.
evp	environmental	adjective	1	B1	relating to the environment	People are becoming far more aware of environmental issues.	As you know, I went to Canada in order to take part in an environmental conference.
evp	environmentalist	noun	1	C1	someone who tries to protect the natural environment from being damaged	She is a well-known environmentalist.	Others also, especially environmentalists, suggest that we should turn to electric-powered engines which are environmentally friendly, as these air pollutants bring about the thinning of the ozone layer.
evp	environmentally	adverb	1	B2	in a way that is related to the environment	environmentally damaging chemicals	All these things were made possible because we have the world's most dedicated and environmentally adaptable government, spearheaded by Lee Kuan Yew decades ago.
evp	environmentally friendly	adjective	1	B2	not harmful to the environment	environmentally-friendly laundry detergent	A lot was said about creating more environmentally-friendly products.
evp	envision	verb	1	C1	to imagine something happening, or think that something is likely to happen	He envisioned a partnership between business and government.	From the childhood, when you are only a kid, you envision yourself getting married and quite naturally it is a great feeling when you do get married.
evp	envy	verb	1	B2	to wish that you had something that someone else has	I envy her ability to talk to people she's never met before.	I really envy you, Pete.
evp	envy	noun	1	B2	the feeling that you wish you had something that someone else has	I watched with envy as she set off for the airport.	Sam, your last letter has filled me with envy.
evp	envy	noun	2	C2	to be liked and wanted by someone	Her new office was the envy of the whole company.	I enjoy being the envy of my friends as I take it out of its case and show it off.
evp	envy	noun	3	C2	to wish very much that you had something that another person has	Sam's got a job in the south of France and we're all green with envy!	The more successful players' salary makes the others green with envy.
evp	episode	noun	1	B2	a single event or group of related events	This latest episode in the fraud scandal has shocked a lot of people.	This little episode happened when I was seven years old.
evp	episode	noun	2	B2	one of the single parts into which a story is divided, especially when it is broadcast on television or radio	I missed the first episode.	I watched the news and one episode of "Friends".
evp	equal	adjective	1	B1	the same in amount, number or size	The sides are of equal length.	We are a well-mixed class with equal numbers of boys and girls, all about 20 years old.
evp	equal	adjective	2	B2	the same in importance and deserving the same treatment	All people are equal, deserving the same rights as each other.	Then Napoleon did whatever he wanted to do under the motto of "all animals are equal", which was false.
evp	equal	noun	1	B2	someone or something that has the same importance as someone or something else and deserves the same treatment	The good thing about having her as a boss is that she treats us all as equals.	We must respect and treat them as our equals.
evp	equality	noun	1	B2	the right of different groups of people to have a similar social position and receive the same treatment	equality between the sexes	That's why I think people who fight to defend equality are amazing, especially Nelson Mandela because he spent part of his life in jail for that.
evp	equally	adverb	1	B2	fairly and in the same way	Everyone should be treated equally.	In the festival, all the performers were treated equally.
evp	equally	adverb	2	C1	into amounts or parts that are the same size	She shared the money equally between the four children.	The obligations should be divided equally between the members of the group.
evp	equally	adverb	3	C1	to the same degree or level	an equally important question	I think the choice of a good organization, which can provide good facilities and social conditions, along with good teaching, is equally important.
evp	equate	verb	1	C2	to consider one thing to be the same as or equal to another thing	Many people equate wealth with happiness.	Because we live in a capitalist world where the notions of good life and happiness are largely, if not solely, equated with material prosperity, to achieve them requires the above listed qualities.
evp	equation	noun	1	C1	a mathematical statement in which you show that two amounts or symbols are equal	In the equation 3x - 3 = 15, x equals 6.	I would like to address the issue using a very simple equation of economics: Demand = supply.
evp	equip	verb	1	B2	to provide someone or something with what is needed for a particular purpose	They're raising money to equip the hospital.	We were equipped with crampons, ropes, ice axes, gloves, sunglasses and so on.
evp	equipment	noun	1	B1	the set of necessary tools, clothing, etc. for a particular purpose	office/camping/kitchen equipment	You can rent equipment or take your own.
evp	equivalent	adjective	1	C1	equal in amount, value, importance, or meaning	The UK's Brit Awards are roughly equivalent to the Oscars.	The 35-49 year old group started in 1990 with an attendance figure of 60 percent, almost equivalent to the age group of the 25-34 year olds.
evp	equivalent	noun	1	C1	something that has the same value, importance, size, or meaning as something else	She won the equivalent of $5 million.	Most technical terms have Latin roots and are very similar to their German equivalent.
evp	era	noun	1	B2	a period of time in history that is special for a particular reason	the Clinton era	The world is paddling through the era of technology.
evp	eradicate	verb	1	C2	to destroy or completely get rid of something such as a social problem or a disease	The government claims to be doing all it can to eradicate corruption.	Homelessness is not going to be eradicated unless we acknowledge that it is not anything else but a symptom of the imperfection of the society in which we live.
evp	erase	verb	1	B2	to remove writing or other marks from something by rubbing it with a piece of rubber or with a cloth	I kept changing my mind and erasing my answers on the test.	The dozen notebooks she had written, erased, tore apart and thrown in the trash can didn't bother her now.
evp	eraser	noun	1	A1	a small piece of rubber that is used to remove pencil marks from paper	I usually have pencils and an eraser in my backpack.	You will have to bring a pencil, an eraser and a notebook.
evp	erode	verb	1	C2	If soil, stone, etc., erodes or is eroded, it is gradually damaged by water or wind.	The coastline is slowly being eroded.	The areas of Sayago - in the Spanish province of Zamora - and Tras-os-Montes, in Portugal, are joined by a natural border: the river Duero and the rocky canyon that has been eroded for millions of years by the action of the water.
evp	erode	verb	2	C2	to gradually destroy something such as a quality or situation or to make it weaker	Budget cuts could further erode the benefit package provided for by the contract.	Competition can erode a child's confidence.
evp	erosion	noun	1	C1	damage to soil, stone, etc. by water or wind	soil/coastal erosion	Deforestation changes the climate and natural ability to stop soil erosion also plays a role here.
evp	erosion	noun	2	C2	gradual damage to something such as a quality or situation	There has been a gradual erosion of confidence in the government.	For one thing] shopping can cause an erosion in family values. Children now tend to give more importance to material things.
evp	error	noun	1	B2	a mistake	He admitted that he'd made an error.	There are a lot of factual errors in this article.
evp	error	noun	2	C2	the amount by which a calculation can be wrong but still give a good result	a margin of error of 5 percent	It might be true that what is considered to be healthy or unhealthy changes over time, however, as science progresses the margin of error becomes smaller, and experts are then able to have a more accurate and precise say on all matters, including health.
evp	error	noun	3	C2	a way of learning the best way to do something by trying different methods	There aren't any instructions with it - it's just a matter of trial and error.	If you don't know the past, you're liable to live through it again as instead of deriving the lessons from someone else's experiences, you'll have to learn them the hard way, by trial and error.
evp	erupt	verb	1	C2	to burst out suddenly or explode	The crowd erupted in cheers.	To talk about youth means awakening all the bursting and erupting emotions.
evp	escalator	noun	1	B2	moving stairs that take people from one level of a building to another	I'll meet you by the up/down escalator on the second floor.	The newly decorated section is fairly modern in style with escalators and touch-screen ticket machines.
evp	escape	verb	1	B1	to succeed in getting away from a place where you do not want to be	The two prisoners escaped from prison last night.	You also get to meet people there, interesting people - for example, I met a really weird guy who claims to have escaped from an asylum, twice!
evp	escape	verb	2	B2	to avoid a dangerous or unpleasant situation	She was lucky to escape serious injury.	Happily they were found by some hunters and escaped with minor injuries.
evp	escape	verb	3	C2	If something escapes your notice or attention, you do not notice or see it.	Nothing that goes on in this office escapes her attention.	It has hardly escaped the attention of anyone that the football World Cup is coming up, and it seems that virtually everybody has something to say about this event or about international sports competitions in general.
evp	escape	verb	4	C2	If something such as a name escapes you, you cannot remember it.	The name of her book escapes me at the moment.	My first teacher was an elderly woman (her name escapes me now), who had worked in that school for many years.
evp	escape	noun	1	B2	something that helps you to forget about your usual life or problems	I love old movies - they're such an escape from the real world.	When I come there in September, I would rather spend our time in the countryside on your uncle's farm. It will be for me an escape from routine and source of revival.
evp	escape	noun	2	C1	when someone succeeds in getting out of a place or a dangerous or bad situation	He made his escape on the back of a motorbike.	Being impatient in the jail, Tom planned for his escape.
evp	escape	noun	3	C2	If you have a narrow escape, you only just avoid danger.	He had a narrow escape when a falling tree crushed his car.	Ralph will have a narrow escape: he is saved by the arrival of a ship which has at last come to rescue them all.
evp	especially	adverb	1	A2	very much or particularly	She's not especially interested in sports.	I like sports, especially playing basketball.
evp	essay	noun	1	B1	a short piece of writing about a particular subject, especially one done by students	For homework I want you to write an essay on endangered species.	I could write an extra essay.
evp	essence	noun	1	C2	the basic or most important idea or quality of something	The essence of his argument is that we should not eat meat.	But growth is in the essence of every living being, and it is a part of the educational process, as the child grows older, that parents learn to "let go".
evp	essence	noun	2	C2	used to emphasize the most important idea or quality of something	In essence, its purpose is to contain information.	In essence, homelessness means that you don't have a home and because of this you are living on the streets.
evp	essential	adjective	1	B1	very important and necessary	Government support will be essential if the project is to succeed.	Well, thirdly, rest is essential!
evp	essential	adjective	2	C2	the most basic and important	There's one essential point I think you've forgotten.	There is an essential difference between Germans from Germany and native Germans from abroad.
evp	essentially	adverb	1	B2	relating to the most important characteristics or ideas of something	It's essentially a dictionary but it differs in one or two respects.	Although we are essentially a rock band, we integrate elements of traditional Indian music (such as sitar).
evp	establish	verb	1	B2	to start a company or organization that is likely to continue for a long time	The brewery was established in 1822.	The first restaurant, which was established 10 years ago, is called Paris.
evp	establish	verb	2	C1	to start having a relationship or communicating with another person, company, country, or organization	The two countries have only recently established diplomatic relations.	[As] everyone knows, English is called "the universal language", which is used in all the airports of the world, to establish communication between the airports and the planes that arrive from all over the world.
evp	establish	verb	3	C1	to put someone or something into a successful and lasting position	He quickly established himself as a talented actor.	In fact, after ending his career as a football player, Pele managed to establish himself as a successful businessman.
evp	establish	verb	4	C2	to decide something	Our first step must be to establish priorities for the weeks ahead.	As well as this, parents have to establish clear guidelines in relation to expenditure.
evp	establish	verb	5	C2	to find out information or prove something	The police are trying to establish how he died.	In summary, it is difficult to establish how people choose to buy what they buy.
evp	establishment	noun	1	C1	a business or other organization, or the place where an organization operates	an educational/religious establishment	
evp	estate	noun	1	B2	a large area of land in the country which is owned by a family or an organization and is often used for growing crops or raising animals	a country estate	There is a special law in Sweden which allows everyone to wander through any private estate unless one causes harm.
evp	estate	noun	2	B2	a group of houses or factories built in a planned way	a housing estate	I live o] a big housing estate.
evp	estimate	verb	1	B2	to guess the cost, size, value, etc. of something	Sources estimate a long-term 50% increase in train fares.	I estimate it will take only 7 minutes to walk from the conference center to the hotel.
evp	estimate	noun	1	B2	a guess of what the size, value, amount, cost, etc. of something might be	The number of people who applied for the course was 120 compared with an initial estimate of between 50 and 100.	
evp	estimated	adjective	1	B2	guessed	an estimated cost/value	My estimated time of arrival at Heathrow airport is nine o'clock in the morning and my flight number is OK 1312.
evp	ethical	adjective	1	C2	relating to what is right or wrong	The book raises some serious ethical questions.	In addition, being successful requires a certain ruthlessness which enables one to regard one's own ethical standards, as well as one's perception of the world, as beyond criticism.
evp	ethical	adjective	2	C2	morally correct and good	He dealt with this case in a completely professional and ethical manner.	It's not so much a problem of funds now, for I and my husband earn our living easily, but the question of how to bring across those moral and ethical values I believe in, namely reliability, honesty, self-confidence, to a certain degree endurance and discipline, paired with friendly and polite manners.
evp	ethnic	adjective	1	C1	relating to a large group of people who have the same national, racial, or cultural origins	an ethnic neighborhood	Over 98% of the population are ethnic Chinese.
evp	euro	noun	1	A2	the unit of money used in most European Union countries; €	Most hotels are priced between a hundred and two hundred euros a night.	The price is 50 euro.
evp	evaluate	verb	1	C1	to consider or study something carefully and decide how good or bad it is	We need time to evaluate the proposal.	The aim of this report is to evaluate and describe how successful our College Film Club has been so far.
evp	evaluation	noun	1	C1	the act of considering something carefully and deciding how good or bad it is	There was no evaluation of the risks involved.	And that is what counts in the evaluation of job candidates.
evp	even	adverb	1	A2	used to emphasize something that is surprising	Everyone danced - even Mick.	You were the only one who wasn't there, even Marcelo was there!
evp	even	adverb	2	B1	used to emphasize a comparison	Her last film was even better.	When I saw her getting off the train I really was close to breaking down because she looked even more beautiful.
evp	even	adverb	3	B1	used to emphasize the fact that something does not happen or is not true	"I never cry." "Not even when you hurt yourself really badly?"	We tried to fish, but didn't catch a thing, not even a shoe!
evp	even	adverb	4	B2	whether or not	Even if you take a taxi, you'll still miss your train.	I often go to parks, with or without the children, even if the weather is not good.
evp	even	adverb	5	B2	although	Even though he left school at 16, he still managed to become a millionaire.	They didn't give up hope even though they were tired and wet to the bone.
evp	even	adverb	6	C1	used to emphasize that something surprising is true despite what you have just said	Car prices have gone down a lot, but even so, we couldn't afford to buy one.	I'm sure many of these things happened due to bad luck, but even so, there are some arrangements that, I believe, can easily be improved.
evp	even	adverb	7	C1	to make as much money as you spent, but no more	The company only managed to break even this year.	Company C does not seem to be doing well. In the year 2000, it just seems to be breaking even.
evp	evening	noun	1	A1	the part of the day between the afternoon and the night	I'm working late this evening.	She watches TV every evening.
evp	event	noun	1	B1	something that happens, especially something important or unusual	Local people have been shocked by recent events in town.	I like this book because I like the description of historical events.
evp	event	noun	2	B1	a race, party, competition, etc. that has been organized for a particular time	Over two thousand people took part in the event.	When there are parties or important social events, I usually choose a dress to wear.
evp	event	noun	3	C1	if something happens	An airbag could save your life in the event of an accident.	In the event of bad weather, it would be wise to plan an alternative to the boat trip, for example a visit of Buckingham Palace or the Houses of Parliament.
evp	event	noun	4	C1	whatever happens	I'm not sure if I'm coming on Friday, but in any event, I'll see you next week.	In any event, it is incumbent upon all of us to carefully plan our travel matters, so as to take advantage of their several benefits.
evp	event	noun	5	C2	the way in which a situation develops, especially a sudden or unexpected change	We were all shocked by this tragic turn of events.	She was not prepared for such an unexpected turn of events!
evp	eventful	adjective	1	C2	full of interesting or important events	a very eventful day/journey	Well do I remember a present I was given on one of my most memorable and eventful birthdays.
evp	eventual	adjective	1	C2	happening or existing at the end of a process or period of time	the eventual winner of the competition	Finally, the most important consequence - and in some way quite a perverse one - is that setting the island on fire leads to the boys' eventual rescue; so, pure destruction here means c]atharsi (speaking in terms of drama).
evp	eventually	adverb	1	B2	in the end, especially after a long time	Eventually they reached an agreement.	Anyway Pat eventually apologized to me.
evp	ever	adverb	1	A2	at any time	Have you ever been to London?	[It] is the most beautiful place I've ever seen.
evp	ever	adverb	2	B1	almost never	We hardly ever go out these days.	Well, nowadays I hardly ever watch television, as time is something that I really don't have enough to spend.
evp	ever	adverb	3	B1	continuously since that time	We met at school and have been friends ever since.	The pen was given to me by my father on my birthday and I have treasured it ever since.
evp	ever	adverb	4	B1	always in the future	I'm not going to live here for ever.	My friend was leaving the city for ever and going to a city in another country.
evp	ever	adverb	5	C1	better/faster/happier, etc. than at any time before	She is running faster than ever.	As for the students' exam results, they are better than ever.
evp	ever	adverb	6	C2	always changing/growing/increasing, etc.	We live in an ever-changing world.	In our ever-changing society, in the affluent cities of the Western world, life moves at such a fast pace that parents are the reflection and the result of our times, the cogs of a large, rather uncontrollable wheel.
evp	everywhere	adverb	1	A2	in or to every place	I looked everywhere for my keys.	I love the teddy bear because it's soft and I can take it with me everywhere.
evp	evidence	noun	1	B2	something that makes you believe that something is true or exists	evidence of global warming	David started looking for evidence, but he found nothing.
evp	evidence	noun	2	C2	information that is given or objects that are shown in a court of law to help to prove if someone has committed a crime	He was arrested despite the lack of evidence against him.	My new neighbour murdered his wife and although the circumstantial evidence against him was enormous, the case was dismissed because of the lack of some clinching piece of evidence.
evp	evident	adjective	1	B2	obvious to everyone and easy to see or understand	The full extent of the damage only became evident the following morning.	Her lyrical verses, poems and prose (especially autobiographical) have something special in them that makes it evident that they were written by a very talented writer.
evp	evidently	adverb	1	B2	in a way that is easy to see	He evidently likes her.	There are, evidently, points in favor and points against.
evp	evil	adjective	1	B2	very cruel, bad or harmful	an evil monster	She is a very dark and evil person who can't forget the first Mrs. de Winter.
evp	evil	noun	1	B2	something that is very bad and harmful	Drug-addiction is one of today's great social evils.	It is not simply the confronting of good and evil.
evp	evolution	noun	1	B2	the way in which living things change and develop over millions of years	Darwin's theory of evolution	I think it is good to have zoos, but we shouldn't try to control natural evolution as we have done until now.
evp	evolution	noun	2	B2	a gradual process of change and development	the evolution of language	[Leonardo's] studies and projects on mechanics puzzle us and foresee the future evolution of science and technology.
evp	evolve	verb	1	C1	to develop or make something develop, usually gradually	rapidly evolving technology	This device has evolved from being a large machine into the size of a notebook.
evp	exact	adjective	1	B1	completely correct in every detail	The exact distance is 1.838 meters.	I am looking forward to your next letter to know the exact time of your arrival]
evp	exactly	adverb	1	A2	used when you are giving or asking for information that is completely correct	The journey took exactly three hours.	I don't know exactly what time I'll arrive.
evp	exactly	adverb	2	B1	used to emphasize what you are saying	I've found some shoes that are exactly the same color as that dress.	That is exactly one of the reasons why I decided to join a new English class.
evp	exactly	adverb	3	B2	something you say when you agree completely with someone	"Surely they should have told us about this problem sooner?" "Exactly!"	
evp	exactly	adverb	4	B2	used to say that something is not completely true	"So you gave her your book?" "Not exactly, I lent it to her."	
evp	exaggerate	verb	1	C1	to make something seem larger, better, worse, etc. than it really is	Don't exaggerate - it didn't cost that much!	Without exaggerating, I would like to mention that she is dependable and trustworthy but also tactful and supportive.
evp	exaggeration	noun	1	C1	when you describe something as larger, better, worse, etc. than it really is	a slight/gross exaggeration of the facts	You wrote about "a sudden downpour of rain" which was a huge exaggeration.
evp	exam	noun	1	A2	an official test of how much you know about something, or how well you can do something	How many pupils are taking the chemistry exam this year?	I will take my exam on December 8.
evp	examination	noun	1	A2	an exam	a written examination	We try to improve our English, because we must pass the P.E.T. examination to complete our studies.
evp	examination	noun	2	B2	when someone looks at or considers something carefully in order to discover something	a medical examination	Finally we went to the hospital for a medical examination and fortunately we were all right.
evp	examine	verb	1	B2	to look at or consider a person or thing carefully and in detail in order to discover something about them	She picked up the knife and examined it closely.	I examined both of them and finally I discovered that it was a virus changed genetically in order to kill people.
evp	examine	verb	2	C2	to test someone to see how much they know or how well they can do something	You'll be examined in three main areas: speaking, listening, and reading comprehension.	Be prepared, not only in the areas you will be examined in.
evp	example	noun	1	A1	something that is typical of the group of things being talked about	This painting here is a marvelous example of her work.	I like rap music, one example of that is El Santo.
evp	example	noun	2	A1	used to give an example of the type of thing you mean	I like soft fruit, for example peaches and plums.	You can make a quick snack, for example a sandwich.
evp	example	noun	3	B2	to do something in a good way so that other people might try to copy you	Try to set a good example for the younger children.	It sets a good example for other museums.
evp	example	noun	4	C2	a very good example of something	This is a prime example of what happens when communication is poor.	In this context in the analyses of Piggy's character, it strikes me as a first spontaneous impression that he personifies the typical proper schoolboy who will later on undoubtedly grow up to be the prime example of a good and responsible citizen.
evp	exceed	verb	1	C1	to be more than a particular number or amount	Sales have exceeded $1 million so far this year.	Our administration costs didn't exceed 5%, the other 10% were the pure costs of the entertainment.
evp	exceed	verb	2	C1	to be much bigger or better than expected	The location of the apartment exceeded our expectations.	The presentation on tourism was brilliant, exceeding my expectations.
evp	exceed	verb	3	C1	to drive faster than you are allowed to according to the law	She was caught exceeding the speed limit.	There are three ground rules you have to follow: stop at stop-signs, don't exceed the speed limit and don't be in the way of other cars.
evp	excel	verb	1	C2	to be very good at something	Paula excelled at when she was in school.	If a school is successful, it will provide opportunities for the child to excel in other areas such as the creative arts, like music, dance, painting and drama, and also sports.
evp	excellent	adjective	1	A2	extremely good	The food was excellent.	I had an excellent supper and danced with Nat.
evp	exception	noun	1	B2	someone or something that is not included in a rule, group or list or that does not behave in the expected way	There are exceptions to every rule.	The animals looked so sad to me. So I decided to set them free, all of them, without exception.
evp	exceptional	adjective	1	B2	extremely good	He really is an exceptional student.	This trip constitutes an exceptional challenge for me.
evp	exceptional	adjective	2	C2	very unusual and not likely to happen very often	Visitors are only allowed in exceptional circumstances.	However, there are always some exceptional circumstances in which they fail to understand what is appropriate for them.
evp	exceptionally	adverb	1	C1	extremely	an exceptionally gifted student	The tourism section, which interested me the most, was outstanding, exceptionally well-prepared presentations!
evp	excess	noun	1	C1	more of something than is usual or needed	The company’s losses are in excess of more than $5 million.	We should change our behavior and buy what we need and not in excess, giving the children a pattern to follow.
evp	excess	noun	2	C2	to do something too much	It is best to avoid eating any one type of food to excess.	We eat and drink to excess only to face the consequences later on.
evp	excess	adjective	1	C1	more than is usual or allowed	We had to pay $50 for excess baggage.	Most students feel that they need to get rid of excess energy at the end of the day and also convey that they are hampered by the fact that not enough sports facilities are available.
evp	excessive	adjective	1	C1	more than is necessary or wanted	They accused the police of using excessive force.	However, having 2 indoor courts seems a bit excessive since the problem with the court is the schedule, not the space.
evp	exchange	noun	1	B1	when you give something to someone and they give you something else	an exchange  of ideas/information	So, it was a very interesting exchange of ideas.
evp	exchange	noun	2	B1	an arrangement by which students and teachers from one country go to stay with students and teachers in another country	Our school has an exchange with a school in Madrid, so I'll be going to Spain next semester.	His name is Rob and, like me, he applied to the student exchange program.
evp	exchange	verb	1	B1	to give something to someone and receive something similar from them	It's traditional for the two teams to exchange shirts after the game.	She moved to another part of town and we forgot to exchange our addresses.
evp	exchange	verb	2	B2	to take something back to the shop where you bought it and change it for something else	Your purchase can only be exchanged if you have the original receipt.	
evp	exchange	verb	3	B2	If two people exchange looks, opinions, views, etc., they look at each other, talk to each other, etc.	The group meets every month to exchange their views on a book they have all read.	You can exchange opinions with them as to the way of life in Japan and your country.
evp	exchange rate	noun	1	B1	the rate at which the money of one country can be changed for the money of another country	The Money Ready Reckoner gives the exchange rate for any country you plan to visit and shows how much currency you will get.	I looked around and saw a shop with the notice "Currency exchange". I decided to go in to find out the exchange rate.
evp	excited	adjective	1	A1	feeling very happy and enthusiastic	Are you getting excited about your vacation?	I am very excited!
evp	excitedly	adverb	1	B1	in an excited way	She ran excitedly down the hall to greet her cousins.	We talked excitedly about it all the way home.
evp	excitement	noun	1	B1	when people feel very happy and enthusiastic	The competition is causing a lot of excitement.	However, if you are looking for fun and excitement, I would go for the city.
evp	exciting	adjective	1	A1	making you feel very happy and enthusiastic	an exciting movie/game	I enjoyed the game very much, because it was very exciting.
evp	exclaim	verb	1	C2	to say something suddenly and loudly because you are surprised, annoyed, excited, etc.	"How terrible!" she exclaimed.	Then he would exclaim, "What a wonderful selection," with a robust laugh.
evp	exclamation point	noun	1	B2	a punctuation mark (!) used at the end of a sentence that expresses surprise, excitement or shock	Her e-mail is full of exclamation points.	
evp	exclude	verb	1	C1	to not allow someone or something to take part in an activity or to enter a place	Two students were excluded from the class because they registered late and it was already full.	Lots of students made a different decision and participated in the swimming gala, where nobody was excluded, because there were races for all abilities.
evp	exclude	verb	2	C1	to intentionally not include something	The advertised price excludes the sales tax.	Hungary was excluded from the Formula 1 Calendar and as a result a new country is to be chosen to replace the missing event.
evp	exclusive	adjective	1	B2	expensive and only for people who are rich or of a high social class	an exclusive club/hotel/shop	If you prefer small exclusive shops, you'll be able to find them at every corner in St. Gallen.
evp	exclusive	adjective	2	C1	not shared with another person, organization, newspaper, etc.	an exclusive interview	They don't have a personal life anymore because of this, and photographers are following them everywhere because they want to take an exclusive picture, so they can earn a lot of money with it when a magazine wants to buy it.
evp	exclusively	adverb	1	C1	only	an exclusively female audience	In addition, the reduced price mentioned refers exclusively to UK students, which caused significant problems.
evp	execute	verb	1	C2	to kill someone as a legal punishment	He was executed for murder.	She might even have had some cruel aspects in her personality for she did not hesitate to execute traitors.
evp	execute	verb	2	C2	to do something, such as follow a plan or order	to execute a deal/plan	When he controls the work of the other staff members, he wants to find out whether they executed their duties perfectly.
evp	executive	adjective	1	C1	relating to making decisions and managing businesses	an executive director	So I am now an executive director, I have a job and I know very important people in the Romanian Government.
evp	executive	noun	1	C1	someone who has an important job in a business	a company executive	The main reason why I attended this conference was to learn how international companies select their employees and how I could improve my qualifications as a finance executive.
evp	exemplify	verb	1	C2	to be or give a typical example of something	This painting perfectly exemplifies the naturalistic style so popular at that time.	Okonkwo serves to exemplify to the reader the consequences that the Igbo people were suffering.
evp	exercise	noun	1	A2	physical activity that you do to make your body strong and healthy	You really should get more exercise.	I can also get some exercise with the bicycle.
evp	exercise	noun	2	A2	a short piece of written work which you do to practice something you are learning	The book has exercises at the end of every chapter.	It's a new book and it has all the necessary exercises for secondary school.
evp	exercise	noun	3	C2	a set of actions that a group of soldiers do to practice their skills	The cadets are out on military exercises.	I am not opposed to military exercises, but such a noisy activity cannot be tolerated in a world in which environmental protection should be promoted by everybody, including the army.
evp	exercise	verb	1	B1	to do physical activities to make your body strong and healthy	She exercises most evenings, usually by running.	It's funny how I heard about that; I was at the gym with Sarah, we were exercising when we heard Tom talking about it with John.
evp	exercise	verb	2	C2	to use a power, right, or ability	You should always exercise your right to vote.	However, if you believe that nothing can be done, I have to inform you that we will exercise our legal rights and take action against you.
evp	exhaust	verb	1	C1	to make someone very tired	The long trip exhausted the children.	I think that the students were expecting to be given a job that would actually improve their English and not just exhaust them physically.
evp	exhaust	noun	1	C1	the waste gas from a vehicle's engine	exhaust fumes	Therefore, it might cause a great deal of pollution because of exhaust fumes.
evp	exhaust	noun	2	C1	the pipe that waste gas from a vehicle's engine flows through	The car needs a new exhaust.	There are traffic jams and it becomes a real hell to drive or simply to walk (because of the noise and pollution of exhaust pipes).
evp	exhausted	adjective	1	B1	extremely tired	By the time they reached the summit they were exhausted.	When we got back home I was absolutely exhausted.
evp	exhausting	adjective	1	B2	making you feel extremely tired	I've had an exhausting day.	We will also have the opportunity to drink a coffee or have a snack after an exhausting day in the swimming pool!!
evp	exhaustion	noun	1	B2	when you are extremely tired	She felt sick with exhaustion.	Imagine our exhaustion after a few days walking around the city in the heat.
evp	exhaustive	adjective	1	C1	complete and including everything	an exhaustive account of the incident	I think this report is exhaustive and that we can rely on this institution, should other colleagues be sent to a similar course there.
evp	exhibit	verb	1	C1	to show objects such as paintings to the public	She's exhibiting her roses at the local flower show.	Roman pottery was found here in recent years, and it is now exhibited at the local museum.
evp	exhibit	verb	2	C2	to show a feeling, quality, or ability	The crew exhibited great courage when the plane crashed.	I consider my father a successful man because he exhibits all the qualities I've mentioned above.
evp	exhibit	noun	1	C1	an object such as a painting that is shown to the public	The museum’s exhibits range from Iron Age pottery to Eskimo clothing.	Apart from that, there are English-speaking tourist guides in museums and historical sites, so that visitors can enjoy them and understand what the exhibits are.
evp	exhibition	noun	1	B1	when objects such as paintings are shown to the public	to see/visit an exhibition	We went to the Royal Academy to see the Kandinsky exhibition.
evp	exile	noun	1	C2	when someone has to leave their home and live in another country, often for political reasons	He lives in exile in New York.	Back in 1964, in the peak of a dictatorship period in Brazil, Caetano was forced in]t exile, leaving behind his mother, who also was his best friend.
evp	exist	verb	1	B1	to be present or real	Poverty still exists in this country.	Buses will not exist any more and everyone will have his own car and his own computer too.
evp	exist	verb	2	C1	to live in difficult conditions	You can't exist without water for more than a week.	It's hard to exist without water, so there were long queues to our local wells.
evp	existence	noun	1	B2	when something or someone exists	Many people question the existence of God.	The book gives explanations about all these popular beliefs about ghosts and their supposed existence among living people.
evp	existing	adjective	1	B2	describes something that exists now	The existing church was built in the sixteenth century.	The computer upgraded most of the existing inventions, and made them more efficient, faster and more user-friendly].
evp	exit	noun	1	A2	the door or gate which you use to leave a public building or place	a fire exit	I'll meet you tonight at the exit of Wood Green station.
evp	exit	noun	2	A2	a road which you use to leave a highway	Take the third exit and turn left at the end of the ramp.	You should take the high]wa from Palermo to Mazzara and take the third exit.
evp	exit	verb	1	B1	to stop using a program on a computer	Press escape to exit the game.	
evp	exotic	adjective	1	B2	unusual, interesting and often foreign	exotic flowers/fruits	Even if you do not have any cooking skills you can enjoy exotic meals.
evp	expand	verb	1	B2	to increase in size or amount, or to make something increase in this way	The air in the balloon expands when heated.	I would like to expand my library.
evp	expansion	noun	1	B2	when something increases in size or amount	These years saw the rapid expansion of the software industry.	More effective ways include the construction of bridges in heavy traffic areas and the expansion of METRO to even more areas of Athens.
evp	expect	verb	1	B1	to think or believe that something will happen	We are expecting a lot of applicants for the job.	I expect that it is going to be sunny because in the hotel there is a swimming-pool.
evp	expect	verb	2	B1	to be waiting for someone or something to arrive	I'm expecting a letter from my sister.	I wasn't expecting any message.
evp	expect	verb	3	B2	to think that someone should behave in a particular way or do a particular thing	You will be expected to work some weekends.	You have to satisfy your boss but you do not have to do more than you are expected to.
evp	expect	verb	4	B2	to be going to have a baby	I'm expecting our first baby in May.	When I was nine or ten years old, my mother was expecting a baby.
evp	expectation	noun	1	B2	when you expect good things to happen in the future	The holiday lived up to all our expectations.	The talks given by writers were up to my expectations and it was a pleasure to attend all of them.
evp	expectation	noun	2	C1	to be much bigger or better than expected	The location of the apartment exceeded our expectations.	The presentation on tourism was brilliant, exceeding my expectations.
evp	expected	adjective	1	B2	thought likely to happen or be true	The expected power cuts never happened.	I went into the theatre on time but became a little bit angry at having to wait until 20:15, forty-five minutes after the expected starting time.
evp	expedition	noun	1	B1	an organized journey, especially a long one for a particular purpose	Shackleton led several expeditions in the Antarctic.	I was with my father on Mount Tahan and I had the best time of my life during this expedition.
evp	expenditure	noun	1	C2	the total amount of money that a person, business, group, etc., spends	a large expenditure of funds	What's more, it is not always possible to travel, and holidays represent in many cases an additional expenditure of money that it is not available.
evp	expense	noun	1	B2	the money that you spend on something	Buying a bigger car has proved to be well worth the expense.	We couldn't afford the expense of a new car at that time.
evp	expense	noun	2	C1	If you do one thing at the expense of another, doing the first thing harms the second thing.	He spent a lot of time at work, at the expense of his marriage.	Unfortunately one is usually done at the expense of the other.
evp	expense	noun	3	C2	in order to make someone look stupid	Stop making jokes at my expense.	But despite his intellectual superiority, Piggy was subject to derision because of his physical outward appearance and the group of boys played jokes at his expense.
evp	expenses	noun	1	C1	money that you spend when you are doing your job, that your employer will pay back to you	travel/entertainment expenses	They actually helped me a lot with relocation and even reimbursed my travel expenses.
evp	expensive	adjective	1	A1	costing a lot of money	expensive jewelry	My mother bought the glass for me last year and it's very expensive.
evp	experience	noun	1	B1	knowledge that you get from doing a job, or from doing, seeing, or feeling something	She has a lot of teaching experience.	I believe as I get more experience, I will be converted to an international basketball player.
evp	experience	noun	2	B1	something that happens to you that affects how you feel	I had a very unpleasant experience at the dentist.	It was a great experience, we talked for 3 hours about lots of things.
evp	experience	verb	1	B1	If you experience something, it happens to you, or you feel it.	We experienced a lot of difficulty selling our house.	We had three fantastic days [- the best we have ever experienced.
evp	experienced	adjective	1	B1	having skill or knowledge because you have done something many times	an experienced teacher	You can go to the nearest village, where you can do a mountain walk led by experienced guides.
evp	experiment	noun	1	B1	a test, especially a scientific one,  that you do in order to learn something or to discover whether something is true	Some people believe that experiments on animals should be banned.	In the chemistry lab experiments are often set up.
evp	experiment	verb	1	B2	to try something in order to discover what it is like	Did he ever experiment with drugs?	Last year I started to take a lot of black and white photos and I wanted to follow the process all the way through so I bought an enlarger. I was now able to experiment with all sorts of techniques.
evp	experiment	verb	2	C2	to do an experiment	Experimenting on mice can give us an idea of the effect of the disease in humans.	Firstly, scientists are the best contributors for a better world around us being smarter and hard-working, gaining knowledge and experimenting in laboratories.
evp	experimental	adjective	1	C2	relating to tests, especially scientific ones	The two scientists used very different experimental methods.	But in my opinion this is no excuse to discard the findings of numerous well-educated nutritionists and food specialists who devote long h]our to researching the eating habits of the people of the world, who sift through data from times gone by to find out about our predecessors' habits and who build and test hypotheses in strictly controlled experimental conditions.
evp	expert	noun	1	B1	someone who has a lot of skill in something or a lot of knowledge of something	a computer/gardening/medical expert	My "personal" trainer is Peter, he is a real expert in running.
evp	expert	adjective	1	B2	having or showing a lot of knowledge or skill	The center provides expert advice for people with financial problems.	We're not expert cyclists and we could get tired before we get to the Mountain Hostel.
evp	expire	verb	1	C2	If a legal document or agreement expires, you can no longer use it.	Your contract expired six months ago.	It is extremely important that your passport does not expire before your return date.
evp	explain	verb	1	A2	to make something clear or easy to understand by giving reasons for it or details about it	If there's anything you don't understand, I'll be happy to explain.	We have to explain the information to our friends.
evp	explanation	noun	1	B1	the details or reasons that someone gives to make something clear or easy to understand	What was her explanation for why she was late?	There must be some kind of explanation.
evp	explicit	adjective	1	C2	clear and exact	She was very explicit about her plans.	Rules have to be explicit and well explained so that they can be strictly followed.
evp	explicit	adjective	2	C2	showing or talking about sex or violence in a very detailed way	an explicit film	One is not supposed to watch explicit movies under the age of 16 nor drink alcohol under the age of 18.
evp	explode	verb	1	B1	If something such as a bomb explodes, it bursts with noise and force, and if you explode it, you make it burst with noise and force.	A bomb exploded at one of London's busiest railway stations this morning.	A bomb had exploded and that boy rescued me from the accident.
evp	exploit	verb	1	B2	to treat someone unfairly for your own advantage	Laws exist to prevent companies from exploiting their employees.	I suppose those people are often exploited and do not have real friends with whom they can share feelings and emotions. Therefore I believe being a famous person is also synonymous with being lonely.
evp	exploit	verb	2	B2	to use or develop something to your advantage	We need to make sure that we exploit our resources as fully as possible.	John would certainly exploit this unique opportunity and meet the interviewer's expectations easily.
evp	exploration	noun	1	C1	the act of traveling to a place or searching a place to learn about it	explorations of the South Pole	In the near future robots will take part in space exploration, as well as ocean exploration.
evp	explore	verb	1	B1	to go around a place where you have never been in order to find out what is there	The best way to explore the countryside is on foot.	You can walk and explore in the jungle.
evp	explore	verb	2	B2	to find out more about something, often something that you might do in the future	We're exploring the possibility of buying a vacation home.	It is a great camera and I still have not explored all the possibilities it holds.
evp	explosion	noun	1	B2	when something such as a bomb explodes	Forty people were killed in the explosion.	I was doing my homework when I heard an explosion.
evp	explosion	noun	2	C1	when something increases suddenly by a large amount	the recent population explosion	The factors leading to this population explosion in cities of the world might vary from country to country and city to city, but there is one common demominator - the quest for a better life.
evp	explosive	adjective	1	C2	An explosive substance or piece of equipment can cause explosions.	The explosive device was hidden in a suitcase.	The small piece of an explosive material caused chaos in the streets of London.
evp	explosive	adjective	2	C2	An explosive situation or subject causes strong feelings, and may make people angry or violent.	a highly explosive political issue	Moreover, there are some explosive issues that give them food for thought, such as the environmental pollution, and the poverty.
evp	explosive	noun	1	C2	a substance or piece of equipment that can cause explosions	He was caught smuggling explosives into the building.	It was in this background of events that Riyaz Mohammed drove a van loaded with a thousand kilos of explosives into the US embassy compound in Nairobi, Kenya, causing the deaths of hundreds of Kenyans and dozens of American citizens.
evp	export	verb	1	B2	to send goods to another country for sale	French cheeses are exported to many different countries.	And of course, while Italy is exporting pizza, spaghetti and food like that, Italian people are able to try different food from foreign countries, like hamburgers, Chinese food, or pudding.
evp	export	noun	1	B2	a product that you sell in another country or the business of selling products in another country	Coffee is one of Brazil's main exports.	At present I work for a Multinational company as export officer.
evp	expose	verb	1	B2	to make public something bad or dishonest	The review exposed widespread corruption in the police force.	If I do not receive full satisfaction, I will expose your operation by writing to the newspaper.
evp	expose	verb	2	B2	to experience something or be affected by something because you are in a particular situation or place	It was the first time I'd been exposed to violence.	Also, with television, we might be exposed to violence in some films and advertisements, which does not happen if we read a book.
evp	exposure	noun	1	C1	when someone experiences something or is affected by it because they are in a particular situation or place	There is a risk of exposure to radiation.	Due to exposure to low temperatures throughout the tour I developed pneumonia and had to be admitted to hospital on arrival in London.
evp	express	verb	1	B2	to show what you think or how you feel using words or actions	I'm simply expressing my opinion.	Dear Aunt Ann, First of all I'd like to express my gratitude to you and to Uncle Mark for your hospitality.
evp	expression	noun	1	B2	a word or phrase	He uses a lot of informal expressions.	With these kinds of videos, they could learn words and expressions used every day by normal people talking to normal people.
evp	expression	noun	2	B2	the look on someone's face, showing what they feel or think	facial expressions	He had a funny expression on his face.
evp	expression	noun	3	B2	when you show what you think or how you feel using words or actions	He wrote her a poem as an expression of his love.	It always thrilled me, the energy and expression this dance had.
evp	expressive	adjective	1	C2	showing your feelings	expressive language	Ann was a beautiful girl with wonderful hair and expressive brown eyes.
evp	exquisite	adjective	1	C2	very beautiful or perfect	a garden of exquisite flowers	On the forefinger of my left hand they can see the most exquisite diamond ring that they ever did see.
evp	extend	verb	1	B2	to make something bigger or to make something last for a longer time	We have plans to extend the deck.	If we decide to extend our stay for two more days, does the offer still stand?
evp	extension	noun	1	B2	extra time that you are given to do or use something	I've applied for an extension of my visa.	
evp	extension	noun	2	B2	a telephone that is connected to the main telephone in an office or other large building	Call me on extension 3104.	For further information call 990-643 extension 93.
evp	extension	noun	3	B2	something that has developed as a result of something else	The book is an extension of ideas he set out in an earlier article.	So we might say the computer is the extension of our brain.
evp	extensive	adjective	1	B2	large in amount or size	Fire had caused extensive damage to the building.	You see, this medieval city has an extensive collection of antiques.
evp	extent	noun	1	B2	the size or importance of something	They are just beginning to realize the full extent of the damage.	[For the past couple of decades, TV has been diffused in Japan to such an extent that nowadays, one household is likely to have more than 2 TV sets that show a wide range of programs nearly 24 hours a day]
evp	extent	noun	2	B2	mainly	Their anger was to a large extent justified.	[In] bad, rainy weather, one might get wet and cold. On the other hand, this can be avoided to a large extent by wearing proper equipment.
evp	extent	noun	3	B2	in some ways	To some extent, she was responsible for the accident.	To a certain extent, this point of view seems to be very respectable.
evp	extent	noun	4	C2	the degree to which something happens or is likely to happen	The research should show the extent to which these changes are being implemented.	Several factors determine the extent to which a person's character may influence our own opinions and even our way of life, such as the time spent with that particular person, or the importance that figure has in our lives.
evp	exterior	noun	1	C1	the outside part of something or someone	The exterior of the house was painted white.	Thus, it is best for the management to improve the look of this building as other buildings in this area have a better looking exterior than ours.
evp	external	adjective	1	B2	relating to the outside part of something	the external walls of the house	If you see all this external decoration, you will probably fall in love with this art.
evp	external	adjective	2	B2	coming from or relating to another country, group, organization, etc.	Most news magazines have a section devoted to external affairs.	
evp	extinct	adjective	1	C1	If a type of animal is extinct, it does not now exist.	These creatures could soon be extinct.	In my opinion, we should start worrying about our environment now, otherwise we will make our own species become extinct before long, and I am sure nobody wants that to happen.
evp	extinction	noun	1	C1	when a type of animal no longer exists	Many species of animal are threatened with extinction.	I wholeheartedly suggest that it should be returned to nature and to the turtles, as they face extinction after the loss of their natural home.
evp	extra	adjective	1	A2	more, or more than usual	She babysits to earn a little of extra cash.	You only have to bring an extra t-shirt.
evp	extra	adverb	1	B1	more	They pay her extra to work nights.	Will there be any special events that cost extra?
evp	extra	noun	1	B1	something that you can get with something else if you pay a little more money	A sunroof is an optional extra on this model of the car.	The DVD contains many extras.
evp	extra	noun	2	C1	an actor in a who does not have a speaking part and usually plays someone in a crowd	A friend of mine is an extra on that movie.	A theater troop at the beginning of a new project is more often than not a flabbergasting rabble of actors, technicians, extras, back-stage workers and so forth.
evp	extract	verb	1	B2	to remove or take out something	The oil which is extracted from olives is used mainly for cooking.	I'm really sorry, but I can't come on the day before because I need to have my teeth extracted.
evp	extract	noun	1	B2	a short part of a book, poem, etc.	They published an extract from his autobiography.	The number of copied and read articles or book extracts has increased steadily.
evp	extraordinarily	adverb	1	B2	very	She is, it must be said, extraordinarily beautiful.	Besides, the trip will be extraordinarily helpful for my course at school.
evp	extraordinary	adjective	1	B1	very special, unusual or strange	He told the extraordinary story of his escape.	On the next day there was an extraordinary thunderstorm!
evp	extravagant	adjective	1	C2	costing too much, or spending a lot more money than you need to	the extravagant lifestyle of a movie star	In some extreme cases, young people are known to have extravagant lifestyles and wasteful spending habits.
evp	extreme	adjective	1	B2	very large in amount or degree	extreme pain/danger/wealth	This time I promise that I will take extreme caution with your things.
evp	extreme	adjective	2	B2	the most unusual or the most serious possible	extreme weather conditions	It seems to be an extreme case but it is a fact that modern children have no more contact with animal life.
evp	extreme	adjective	3	C2	having such strong opinions or beliefs that most people cannot agree with you	extreme views	Consequently, I can now express my disagreement with both articles, mostly because of the extreme opinions they cont]ain
evp	extremely	adverb	1	B1	very, or much more than usual	They played extremely well.	The film was extremely funny.
evp	extreme sports	noun	1	B1	a sport or activity that is exciting and dangerous	I love most extreme sports, such as bungee jumping and white-water rafting.	You can go camping, climb mountains or learn a lot of extreme sports.
evp	extremist	noun	1	C2	someone who has such strong opinions or beliefs that most people cannot agree with them	political/religious extremists	Be[ar]ing in mind all these strict rules my children have to follow they seem to be bound to become anarchic extremists.
evp	extrovert	noun	1	C1	someone who is very confident and likes being with other people	She is an extrovert.	She is an extrovert, a sociable person, who loves talking to people and is always ready to sacrifice her free time to make them happy.
evp	eye	noun	1	A1	one of the two organs in your face, which you use to see with	He has no sight in his left/right eye.	I like her long brown hair and blue eyes.
evp	eye	noun	2	B1	to be very surprised when you see someone or something	I couldn't believe my eyes when I saw what he was wearing.	Well, this church was extremely simple o] the outside, but when I got inside it, I couldn't believe my eyes.
evp	eye	noun	3	B2	to watch or look after someone or something	Could you keep an eye on this pot of soup for a moment?	You have to supply e]verythin they need and keep an eye on them all the time.
evp	eye	noun	4	B2	in someone's opinion	In my parents' eyes, I'll always be a child.	To answer your question right away, the boat trip is highly recommendable in my eyes!
evp	eye	noun	5	B2	to be unable to stop looking at someone or something because they are so attractive or interesting	He couldn't take his eyes off the wrapped gifts on the table.	Her daughter, Lourdes Maria, is such a pretty little girl that I couldn't take my eyes off her.
evp	eye	noun	6	B2	to be good at noticing a particular type of thing	Your son has a very good eye for detail.	She's got an eye for details but a mind like anybody else's.
evp	eye	noun	7	B2	to look at someone in a direct way, without showing fear or shame	I wanted to look him in the eye and tell him I made a mistake.	One day she looked me in the eyes with a sharp deep look - never have I seen such a deep look - and asked me what was happening and I told her.
evp	eye	noun	8	C1	to watch carefully for someone or something to appear	Keep an eye out for the delivery truck.	Although individually we try to deliver the best care possible for our individual patients, we do keep an ear or an eye out for the other members of the team that day.
evp	eye	noun	9	C1	to choose to ignore something that you know is wrong	The restaurant staff often took food home, and their boss turned a blind eye.	Nevertheless, we can't turn a blind eye to this reality.
evp	eye	noun	10	C1	to be famous and often featured in the media	Her new role means that she will be in the public eye.	But being famous also means that you are always in the public eye, which is a major drawback.
evp	eye	noun	11	C2	to get someone's attention by looking at them	I tried to catch her eye, but she had already turned away.	All of a sudden she caught my eye and smiled in a sad way.
evp	eye	noun	12	C2	to be attractive or different enough to be noticed by people	It was the color of his jacket that caught my eye.	Dear Sir, I am writing regarding your newly published article about nutrition, which immediately caught my eye as I was reading your magazine.
evp	eye	noun	13	C2	If two people see eye to eye, they agree with each other.	My sister didn’t see eye to eye with me.	Although I agree with some of the statements given by the young people, I do not see eye to eye with all of their viewpoints.
evp	eye	noun	14	C2	to watch carefully for someone or something	Keep your eyes peeled, he should be here any minute.	Ever since, I try to keep my eyes peeled for anything similar.
evp	eye	noun	15	C2	to watch carefully for someone or something	Keep your eyes open for anything unusual.	While staying in Turkey, for example, people ought to keep their eyes open. Look into life there.
evp	eye	noun	16	C2	If someone cries their eyes out, they cry a lot about a problem or situation.	When she heard the fire had destroyed the houses, she cried her eyes out.	She passed away when I was six years old. I cried my eyes out.
evp	eye	noun	17	C2	extremely quickly	In the blink of an eye, he was gone.	I got dressed i] the blink of an eye and I got down to the kitchen almost rolling down the stairs.
evp	eye	noun	18	C2	in your imagination or memory	In my mind's eye, I imagined the building painted white, with a beautiful garden around it.	He sees her in his mind's eye, running around barefoot, laughing and squealing, wading in the water and running back out, screaming, trying to get away from the breaking waves.
evp	eye	noun	19	C2	If something can be seen by the naked eye, it is big enough to be seen without special equipment.	These bugs are so tiny you cannot see them with the naked eye.	
evp	eye	noun	20	C2	to move your eyes in a circle to show surprise or disapproval	When I asked her when she thought the building work would be finished, she just rolled her eyes.	This attitude is obvious when, for instance, sales assistants show no patience for the slower reaction of elderly people] when nobody offers a seat to an older person in an overcrowded train; when we roll our eyes about older people's desire for quiet, etc.
evp	eye	noun	21	C2	when people look directly at each other, for instance when they are talking to each other	There was very little eye contact between them.	I tried to avoid having eye contact with people just because of this humility.
evp	eyebrow	noun	1	B2	the thin line of hair that is above each eye	He's got really bushy eyebrows.	He woke up and cleaned off the blood from his injured eyebrow.
evp	eyelash	noun	1	B2	one of the short hairs which grow from the edge of your eyelids	false/long eyelashes	
evp	eyelid	noun	1	B2	the piece of skin that covers your eyes when you close them	His eyelids drooped with tiredness.	
evp	eyesight	noun	1	B2	the ability to see	My eyesight is getting worse.	I had some trouble with my eyesight, so he advised me to wear glasses and not to strain my eyes.
evp	fabric	noun	1	C1	cloth	a light/cotton fabric	In our country fabric seldom could be obtained. My mother made herself a winter jacket from old curtains and black stockings from an old woolen pullover.
evp	fabric	noun	2	C2	the basic way in which a society or other social group is organized	The family is part of the fabric of society.	You cannot infringe individual liberties and ban the purchase of cars - it would go against the very fabric of modern society.
evp	fabulous	adjective	1	C1	extremely good	They've got a fabulous house.	Everybody admitted that the entertainment was absolutely fabulous.
evp	face	noun	1	A1	the front part of the head, where the eyes, nose and mouth are, or the expression on this part	She's got a long, thin face.	She has got brown e]yes a round face and white skin.
evp	face	noun	2	B1	to show with your face that you do not like someone or something	Joe made a face when he saw what was for lunch.	Making a face, I slapped my forehead.
evp	face	noun	3	C1	If you accept something at face value because of the way it first looks or seems, you do so without thinking carefully about it.	You can't just accept everything you read in the newspapers at face value.	People are assessed at face value by the type of cars they drive.
evp	face	noun	4	C2	to become less respected by others because of something you did	She had to find a way to accept defeat without losing face.	However, many popular people like Pierce Brosnan managed to keep their lives out of the press and yet be present to meet public demand without losing face.
evp	face	noun	5	C2	to manage to stop yourself from smiling or laughing	I can never play jokes on people because I can't keep a straight face.	
evp	face	noun	6	C2	used when you are describing how a situation seems on the surface	On the face of it, this seems like a bargain, but I bet there are hidden costs.	On the face of it, both sides have valid arguments, and it's a difficult balancing act to manage.
evp	face	noun	7	C2	while having to deal with a difficult situation or problem	They left home in the face of strong opposition from their families.	No doubt, it was rather difficult to like Enid X. She was hardly likely to arouse sympathy in anybody even in the face of death.
evp	face	noun	8	C2	to be the opposite of what is usual or accepted	These recommendations fly in the face of previous advice on safe limits of consumption.	But when we have a look outside our wonderful world, we can easily see that this argument flies in the face of the facts.
evp	face	noun	9	C2	something someone does that insults or upsets you	After all that hard work, losing my job was a real slap in the face.	My father noticed that and decided it was high time to take me down a peg or two. He used to work as a volunteer in a hospital for children dying for cancer. One day, he took me there. It was like a slap in the face - suddenly I saw a different world. It was a bleak world, without smiles and happy faces.
evp	face	verb	1	B1	to be or turn in a particular direction	Our house faces north/south/east/west.	There is a desk to the right of the room which faces my bed.
evp	face	verb	2	B2	If you face a problem, or a problem faces you, you have to deal with it.	This is one of the many problems faced by working mothers.	Grandparents are experienced people and they can help their children to avoid a lot of problems which they have faced.
evp	face	verb	3	B2	to not want to do something or deal with someone, often because it is difficult or unpleasant	I can't face walking up all those steps again.	Everybody at the swimming pool was laughing about me. I couldn't face my family.
evp	face	verb	4	B2	to accept that something unpleasant is true and start to deal with the situation	I think Phil has to face the fact that she no longer loves him.	But Mary has a strong personality, she faces the facts.
evp	face	verb	5	C1	to accept punishment or criticism for something bad that you have done	If she doesn't have a good reason for being late, she'll just have to face the music.	Teenagers who live with their parents have to face the music about the long bills their parents receive monthly!
evp	face	verb	6	C2	something that you say before you say something that is unpleasant but true	Let's face it, none of us are getting any younger.	Let's face it, a life with no physical and mental exercise is something none of us relishes.
evp	face	verb	7	B2	to accept that a difficult situation exists	Eventually, he faced up to his money problems.	However, she had to face up to the fact that it was her duty to question the serial killer, to find out what his motives were.
evp	face to face	adverb	1	B1	directly, meeting someone in the same place	We need to talk face to face.	I need to talk to her face to face.
evp	face-to-face	adjective	1	B1	involving two people who are meeting in the same place	a face-to-face meeting	
evp	facial	adjective	1	C2	of or on the face	facial expressions/hair	I can still recall the doctor's facial expression when he announced the exciting news to me]
evp	facilitate	verb	1	C1	to make something possible or easier	I will do everything in my power to facilitate the process.	I found that the presentations and talks about CVs and letters of application were really useful, but we should have been divided into smaller groups to facilitate conversation.
evp	facilities	noun	1	B2	the equipment and services provided for a particular purpose	athletic facilities	The city has more facilities than the countryside.
evp	facility	noun	1	B1	a building or other place provided for a particular purpose	a training/research/medical facility	Moreover, spending the whole afternoon at the lake gives people a chance to try a couple of water sports, which the facility offers.
evp	facility	noun	2	B2	a part of a system or machine which makes it possible to do something	an overdraft facility	I would suggest free Internet access as an extra facility in our library.
evp	fact	noun	1	A2	something that you know is true, exists, or has happened	I don't know all the facts about what happened.	I love this book, because it's about history facts and it['s] very interesting.
evp	fact	noun	2	B1	used to emphasize what is really true, or to give more information	We met Rebecca for lunch. In fact, we spent the whole afternoon with her.	The club has its own small clubhouse, with many things in it. For example, there was a big pinball-game and some computers. In fact it was the best clubhouse I've ever seen.
evp	fact	noun	3	B2	used to refer to a situation which is surprising in relation to something that is true or happens	The company has been forced to reduce its price, despite the fact that the offer has been very popular.	The advantages of the kind of life that people had years ago is that they could eat more fruit and vegetables than us. However, there are advantages for us too, because despite the fact that we eat more fast food, we do more exercise than they did]
evp	fact	noun	4	B2	real events and experiences, not things that are imagined	It's sometimes hard to separate fact from fiction.	
evp	fact	noun	5	B2	used to give more information, or to correct something that has been said	John plays golf professionally. As a matter of fact, he has just won a big competition.	I think it would be better to choose somewhere outdoors. As a matter of fact, I prefer the open air and the sunlight!
evp	fact	noun	6	B2	used to tell someone that something is the truth	I wouldn't usually ask for your help, but the fact is I'm desperate.	You may find it unusual for a woman to play football, but the fact is I'm Brazilian and in Brazil it is really common.
evp	factor	noun	1	B2	one of the things that has an effect on a situation, decision, event, etc.	Money was an important factor in their decision to move.	[Modern technology is another important factor which affects our life.
evp	factor	noun	2	C2	something important that helps to make the final decision	Cost was the deciding factor in choosing this builder.	Personally, I think the quality of teachers, school reputation and facilities should be the deciding factors for parents for which schools their children should be educated in.
evp	factory	noun	1	A1	a building or set of buildings where large amounts of goods are made using machines	a car/shoe factory	My friend Martin works at a factory.
evp	faculty	noun	1	B2	teachers at a college or university, or in a department of a college or university	We are interviewing for new faculty - there are two positions open in the history department.	
evp	faculty	noun	2	C1	the group of teaching staff of a college or university or of a department of a college or university	He was part of the computer engineering faculty before becoming dean of the Graduate School.	I think that the strengths of the system are mainly in higher education and in some university faculties.
evp	fade	verb	1	B2	to become less bright, strong or clear, or to make something become less bright, strong or clear	If you hang your clothes out in the bright sun, they will fade.	Since the cottage is quite isolated, the electric power supply is not always the best. Anyway, the first night, the lights started to fade.
evp	fade	verb	2	B2	to gradually become less strong or clear and then disappear	With time, memories of that painful summer would fade away.	These memories would never fade away, she knew it.
evp	fail	verb	1	A2	to not pass a test or exam	A lot of people fail their driving test the first time.	I was told most people fail the exam two or three times.
evp	fail	verb	2	B2	to not do what is necessary or expected	He failed to turn up for football practice yesterday.	Your advertisement also failed to mention the fact that there were no discounts.
evp	fail	verb	3	B2	to not be successful	She moved to London in the hope of finding work as a model, but failed.	I tried to make him give up, but all my attempts failed.
evp	fail	verb	4	B2	to stop working normally, or to become weaker	Two of the plane's engines had failed.	The sound system failed.
evp	fail	verb	5	C2	used to say that you do not accept something	I fail to see why you cannot work on a Sunday.	I fail to understand why they still refuse to use this media; it could possibly be the main solution to the present problems in the library.
evp	failure	noun	1	B2	when someone or something does not succeed	Their attempt to climb Mount Everest ended in failure.	David told her that the reason for his failure was her, because she used to press him and she couldn't accept that he wanted to be an actor.
evp	failure	noun	2	B2	when you do not do something that you are expected to do	Failure to pay within 14 days will result in interest being charged.	
evp	failure	noun	3	B2	when something does not work, or stops working as well as it should	All street lights aren't working due to a power failure.	[There] has been a power failure but it will be solved in a few minutes.
evp	faint	adjective	1	B2	slight and not easy to notice, smell, hear, etc.	a faint sound/noise/smell	I heard a faint sound.
evp	faint	adjective	2	C2	to feel very weak and as if you might fall down	Seeing all the blood made me feel faint.	Starting to feel faint, Fred quickly roused himself and ran out of the hotel as quickly as he could.
evp	faint	adjective	3	C2	used to emphasize that you do not know something	I haven't the faintest idea what you're talking about.	Some twenty years ago, when I left my parents' home to go and live on my own, I was given four mugs. By whom? I haven't the faintest idea.
evp	faint	verb	1	B2	to suddenly become unconscious for a short time, usually falling down	He faints at the sight of blood.	The young girl was about to faint.
evp	fair	adjective	1	A2	having pale skin or a light color of hair	She's got fair hair and blue eyes.	She is a pretty girl with long fair hair and she has beautiful eyes.
evp	fair	adjective	2	B1	treating everyone in the same way, so that no one has an advantage	That's not fair! You always go first!	Even though she thought her mom wasn't being fair, she decided to go and try to have a nice day with her family.
evp	fair	adjective	3	B1	acceptable, reasonable or right	a fair deal	You may ask yourself: "What do you do in a club?" Well, it's a fair question!!!
evp	fair	adjective	4	B2	used for saying that you can understand and accept someone's opinion or decision	"He says he'll only work on Sunday if he gets paid extra." "Fair enough."	Most of the streets are open to cars and therefore people tend to escape to a little area around the pedestrian streets. Fair enough, but it makes those streets terribly overcrowded.
evp	fair	adjective	5	C1	not very good but not very bad	He’s good in chemistry but only fair in math.	As for grammar, listening and writing skills, they were only fair.
evp	fair	adjective	6	C2	a large amount, distance, size, etc.	There's still a fair amount of work to be done on the house.	Of course it is important to find a job we enjoy and which leaves us a fair amount of free time, but it is equally important to find a job that pays the bills, especially nowadays.
evp	fair	adjective	7	C2	an equal and honest opportunity	All he asks is a fair chance to prove his innocence.	Then again, I think you have to give every job a fair chance.
evp	fair	adjective	8	C2	behavior that is fair, honest, and does not take advantage of people	The public needs to feel a sense of fair play from the government.	He still believes in justice or just the rule of fair play.
evp	fair	noun	1	B1	an event outside where food and goods are sold, there is entertainment, and sometimes contests	the state/county fair	The annual Leipzig fair is 500 years old.
evp	fair	noun	2	C1	a show in a large place where people who work in a particular industry or have a particular interest or hobby meet to sell products, share information, give demonstrations, etc.	a book/antiques/toy fair	The fair was well organized and structured into specific sections from clothing and sportswear to household appliances and electronics.
evp	fairly	adverb	1	B1	more than average, but less than very	a fairly big family	The weather was fairly warm.
evp	fairly	adverb	2	B2	If you do something fairly, you do it in a way which is right and reasonable and treats people equally.	He claimed that he hadn't been treated fairly by his employers.	
evp	fairness	noun	1	C1	when you treat everyone in the same way, so that no one has an advantage	He believes in fairness and decency.	I think you have not treated us with fairness and truthfulness and therefore I do think that an apology in the newspaper would be in order.
evp	faith	noun	1	B2	great trust or confidence in something or someone	She has no faith in modern medicine.	We must do our best to help these children to have faith in their future.
evp	faith	noun	2	B2	strong belief in a god or gods	Even in the bad times she never lost her faith.	Your story about Christianity was very interesting and I was shocked at your deep faith in God.
evp	faith	noun	3	B2	a particular religion	the Muslim/Christian/Jewish faith	Everybody was praying, asking for help according to their faith or religion.
evp	faithful	adjective	1	B2	loyal	a faithful friend	An ideal pet should be a faithful friend to people, especially to its owner.
evp	faithful	adjective	2	C2	If your husband, wife or partner is faithful, they do not have a romantic relationship with anyone else.	a faithful husband	Making a commitment to be faithful to another, and to love a person for the rest of your life is no small thing.
evp	faithful	adjective	3	C2	not changing any of the original details, facts, style, etc.	Does the film adaptation stay faithful to the novel?	Working with deconstruction in music, he remained faithful to his main motto: Be yourself, express yourself, never repeat or imitate.
evp	fake	adjective	1	C1	not real, but made to look or seem real	fake fur	On the walls there are paintings which are very artistic - one of them is a fake Picasso.
evp	fake	noun	1	C2	a copy of something that is intended to look real or valuable and deceive people	Experts say that the painting is a fake.	Many of the pictures taken are fakes.
evp	fake	noun	2	C2	someone who pretends to have particular skills or qualities so that they can deceive people or get their admiration	He said he was a doctor, but we soon realized he was a fake.	So, after all he was a fake!
evp	fake	verb	1	C2	to copy something in order to deceive people	The documents had been faked.	People liked it so much that another author, using the pseudonym of "Arellaneda", faked Cervante's novel by writing a second part.
evp	fake	verb	2	C2	to pretend that something has happened when it has not or to pretend to have a feeling that you do not have	They faked illness to avoid having to work.	This situation lasted about two years until Caroline had a great idea: they would fake their death and run away to live a quiet life on a secret island they would have bought under an alias.
evp	fall	verb	1	A2	to move down toward the ground, sometimes by accident	The path's very steep, so be careful you don't fall.	You['d] better wear your cheap clothes as paint may fall on you.
evp	fall	verb	2	B1	to become lower in size, amount or strength	Demand for new cars has fallen recently.	It fell steadily until 1960, and remained at 3% until 1987.
evp	fall	verb	3	B1	to start to sleep	I fell asleep on the sofa watching TV.	And I need a bookshelf and a lamp of course, because I always read in bed before I fall asleep.
evp	fall	verb	4	B1	to start to love someone	I was 20 when I first fell in love.	I fell in love with David.
evp	fall	verb	5	C1	If an event or joke falls flat, it fails to have the effect that you wanted, such as making people laugh.	All the jokes in his speech fell flat.	The cultural visits fell flat in comparison to their expectations, although the sightseeing tour of Willstown was, as the students said, "fascinating."
evp	fall	verb	6	C2	used to say that it is becoming dark	When darkness fell, I began to feel worried.	He greeted the worms and the slugs, and as darkness fell he retired to the shelter he had built for the night.
evp	fall	verb	7	C2	to be defeated and start to be controlled by a different leader	The city fell to the enemy.	
evp	fall	verb	8	C2	to become worse, or start to be in a bad situation or condition	Education standards are continuing to fall.	This impressive, massive 18th-century building which accommodated the Town Hall until recently (5 years ago) has now fallen into disuse.
evp	fall	verb	9	C2	to hang down	Her long hair fell softly over her shoulders.	She had gorgeous black hair falling down her back, a creamy complexion and a figure models dream of.
evp	fall	verb	10	C2	If advice or a request falls on deaf ears, people ignore it.	Our pleas for help fell on deaf ears.	His cry for help and for a more meaningful relationship between himself and Mildred invariably fell on deaf ears.
evp	fall	verb	11	C2	When events or details that you did not understand before fall into place, they become easy to understand.	When Jo told me she had a twin sister, everything fell into place.	
evp	fall	verb	12	C2	to be hurt or deceived by something or someone bad	He fell prey to a gang of criminals pretending to be city officials.	As young people do not have experience in living independently in society and are not fully aware of social problems such as drugs and violence, they may easily fall prey to adults who would like to exploit them.
evp	fall	verb	13	C2	to not reach a particular level, but only by a small amount	Sales for the first half of this year fell just short of the target.	Furthermore, it cannot be denied that public transport falls short of the target set during the planning process.
evp	fall	verb	14	C2	to fail to achieve something	His behavior falls short of what we expect.	This routine was really wearing me out, but, I didn't want to fall short of my parents' expectations.
evp	fall	verb	15	B2	to break into pieces	My poor old boots are falling apart.	It looks like it is going to fall apart any day.
evp	fall	verb	16	B2	to start having problems that you cannot deal with	The deal fell apart because of a lack of financing.	All her dreams and wishes fell apart.
evp	fall	verb	17	C2	to use someone or something when other things have failed, or when there are no other choices	We've been saving up the past few years, to have something to fall back on.	Moreover, in an emergency, you can fall back on my neighbors.
evp	fall	verb	18	B1	to fall onto the ground	Our apple tree fell down in the storm.	When I got up in the morning, I slipped on a piece of soap and fell down.
evp	fall	verb	19	B2	to suddenly have strong romantic feelings about someone	She fell for a tall, handsome Frenchman when she was on vacation in Paris.	I saw a handsome boy and I fell for him.
evp	fall	verb	20	B2	to argue with someone and stop being friendly with them	She's fallen out with her sister.	My husband always blames me and we fall out over my incapacity to cook.
evp	fall	verb	21	B1	If someone or something falls over, they fall to the ground or onto their side.	She tripped and fell over.	I nearly fell over because the corridor was very dark.
evp	fall	verb	22	B2	If a plan or agreement falls through, it fails to happen.	Our plans to go on vacation together fell through when Jamie got sick.	All our plans fell through and I hope it will never happen to me again.
evp	fall	noun	1	A2	the season of the year between summer and winter, when leaves fall from the trees	We like to travel in the fall when there are fewer tourists.	You come here in the fall and I think it's best to spend our time in the city because the countryside is very cold.
evp	fall	noun	2	B1	when the size, amount or strength of something gets lower	the recent fall in the price of gas	There is a fall in job vacancies.
evp	fall	noun	3	B2	when someone or something falls down to the ground, often without intending to or by accident	He had a nasty fall and hurt his back.	I was terrified and I heard the noise of a fall just by my side.
evp	fall	noun	4	C1	when a city, government, leader, etc. loses power or control	the fall of the Roman Empire	After the fall of the previous system everything changed.
evp	false	adjective	1	B1	not true or correct	a false name	I must say that the advertisement for the show included a lot of false information.
evp	false	adjective	2	B2	not real, but made to look or seem real	false eyelashes/teeth	The main reason why we want to join your course is in order to learn how to recognize a false stamp.
evp	false	adjective	3	C1	not sincere or expressing real emotions	false promises	The actor is really getting on my nerves because he is so selfish and so false.
evp	fame	noun	1	B2	when you are known by many people because of your achievements, skills, etc.	She first rose to fame as a singer at the age of 16.	It is certain that these people have fame, fortune and success, and that many of them are very rich.
evp	familiar	adjective	1	B1	easy to recognize because of being seen, met, heard, etc. before	There were one or two familiar faces.	Someone started to wave and then I saw a familiar face.
evp	familiar	adjective	2	B2	to know something or someone well	I'm sorry, I'm not familiar with your poetry.	I'm familiar with many kinds of sports activities such as ball games, recreation games, swimming and Japanese budo-karate, judo etc.
evp	family	noun	1	A1	a group of people who are related to each other, such as a mother, a father, and their children	A new family has moved in next door.	I will come with my family.
evp	family	noun	2	B1	the children of a family	He's a single parent raising a family on his own.	Some people also want to have a family because they want to be a father or a mother.
evp	famine	noun	1	C2	when people living in a particular area do not have enough food for a long time causing suffering and death	The floods were followed by a terrible famine.	Pictures of the famine in Africa or the deforestation of the Amazon raise important issues for humanity as a whole, urging us to be more active citizens.
evp	famous	adjective	1	A1	known and recognized by many people	a famous actor	It is the most famous place in Edinburgh.
evp	fan	noun	1	A2	someone who admires and supports a person, sport, sports team, etc.	More than 15,000 Liverpool fans attended Saturday's game.	I'm a fan of rock music.
evp	fan	noun	2	B1	something that is used to move the air around so that it feels cooler, such as a machine or an object that you move with your hand	There was no air conditioning, just a ceiling fan turning slowly.	Since it's quite hot here I brought a fan. I have to use it at night otherwise I can't get to sleep.
evp	fanatic	noun	1	C2	someone whose interest in something or enthusiasm for something is extreme	a religious fanatic	This can give way to fanatics, religious or political, who may easily influence the frustrated masses into doing something they would under other circumstances refrain from.
evp	fancy	adjective	1	B1	attractive and formal or having attractive decoration and interesting features	I wanted a simple black dress, nothing fancy.	Men usually wear a tuxedo, and women usually wear fancy dresses.
evp	fancy	adjective	2	B1	expensive, fashionable, or of high quality	a fancy hotel/restaurant	We can visit museums, beaches, and go to fancy restaurants for dinner.
evp	fantastic	adjective	1	A2	extremely good	You look fantastic in that dress.	The beaches here are fantastic!
evp	fantastically	adverb	1	B2	extremely	They're fantastically rich.	We spent three fantastically romantic days later.
evp	fantasy	noun	1	B2	a situation or event that you imagine, which is not real or true	Steve's favorite fantasy was to own a big house and expensive car.	Reading a book stimulates one's fantasy and imagination.
evp	far	adverb	1	A2	at, to or from a great distance in space or time	Is the station far away?	It isn't so far from my house so we can go on foot]
evp	far	adverb	2	B1	until now	So far we've made eight hundred dollars.	So far I like it here very much.
evp	far	adverb	3	B2	very much	This car is far better than our old one.	I think restaurant B is far better than restaurant A.
evp	far	adverb	4	B2	used to say that you think something is true, but cannot be sure	As far as I know, he's never been in trouble with the police.	As far as I know, accommodation at Camp California is in tents or log cabins.
evp	far	adverb	5	B2	used to say what someone's opinion is	It's all over as far as I'm concerned.	As far as I am concerned, Bernard is similar to him.
evp	far	adverb	6	B2	used to say what you are talking about	As far as sports are concerned, I like tennis and football.	As far as studying abroad is concerned, I totally agree with this idea.
evp	far	adverb	7	B2	by a great amount	They are by far the best students in the class.	I have traveled to many countries, but New Zealand is by far the best.
evp	far	adverb	8	C1	used to talk about how true something is	How far do politicians represent the views of ordinary people?	How far and to what extent would the characteristics we are born with influence our future development in life?
evp	far	adverb	9	C1	used to tell someone that something is certainly not true	He's not selfish, far from it – he's probably one of the kindest people I know.	Contrary to what you may believe by the title, this is not an article about angels waging war against each other. It is far from it as a matter of fact, unless of course you consider high-quality web sites to be your guardian angels.
evp	far	adverb	10	C1	not at all something	The situation is far from clear.	The service was far from satisfactory, and to say that the hotel was not at all luxurious, would be putting it mildly.
evp	far	adverb	11	C2	used to say that something has gone well until now	It's the first time I've done any decorating, but so far, so good.	So far, so good, only no one told us they held this point of view before the actual christening took place.
evp	far	adverb	12	C2	certainly not doing something	Far from being pleased, he was embarrassed by the praise.	Far from asking you to close the airport, which would be quite an irrational request, I am suggesting that you should take some action to improve the situation.
evp	far	adverb	13	C2	to take the extreme action of doing something	He even went so far as to stop her using the telephone.	Our present course of action may go so far as to cause irreversible damage not only to our planet but also to the people living upon it]
evp	far	adverb	14	C2	to behave in a way that upsets or annoys other people	He's said some stupid things in the past, but this time he's gone too far.	Lucia let her speak and calmly said: "You really have gone too far this time."
evp	far	adverb	15	C2	not happening or existing very often	Opportunities like this are few and far between.	Jobs in those days were few and far between and for a number of years he was alternating between temporary jobs and unemployment benefits.
evp	far	adjective	1	B2	describes the part of something that is most distant from the center or from you	His office is at the far end of the corridor.	The dark spot at the far end of the wall seemed to be coming after her this time.
evp	far	adjective	2	C1	to be very different from something	Her luxury mansion is a far cry from the house she grew up in.	The museum was a far cry from what we expected. Not only were the machines really old and should have been replaced a long time ago, but they were boring as well.
evp	far	adjective	3	C2	used to describe political groups whose opinions are very extreme	He belongs to a far right group.	
evp	faraway	adjective	1	C2	a long distance away	faraway places	They transport me to faraway places and to a magic world.
evp	faraway	adjective	2	C2	an expression on someone's face that shows that they are not thinking about what is happening around them	He had a faraway look in his eyes.	But her most noticeable features are her large brown eyes and her happy smile. Yet, sometimes you could see a faraway look in her eyes.
evp	fare	noun	1	B1	the money that you pay for a journey on a vehicle such as a bus or train	Air/Bus/Train fares are going up again.	In fact, there are buses (number 843 and 845) which go to my village but the bus fare is very expensive for me.
evp	farm	noun	1	A1	an area of land with fields and buildings, used for growing crops and/or keeping animals as a business	farm animals	It's very important because I'm going to a farm this weekend and there's nothing to do.
evp	farmer	noun	1	A2	someone who owns or looks after a farm	a sheep farmer	The farmer was very friendly and we spent the day with him.
evp	farming	noun	1	B1	the activity of working on a farm or organizing the work there	modern farming practices	I am interested in farming and hope to own a farm one day.
evp	fascinate	verb	1	C1	to interest someone a lot	Science has always fascinated me.	What fascinates me about it is that this style of music allows the artist to bring in crazy new ideas such as African or Indian rhythms.
evp	fascinated	adjective	1	B2	extremely interested	They were fascinated by his stories.	I am sure you will be fascinated by his work and his multi-faceted character.
evp	fascinating	adjective	1	B2	extremely interesting	a fascinating person/place	You can enjoy not only Hungarian food but also fascinating Hungarian music.
evp	fascination	noun	1	C1	when you find someone or something fascinating	Her fascination with fashion started at an early age.	Anyhow, even if you can't grasp the deep meaning behind the words, its beautiful rhyme and rhythm will exert a fascination on you.
evp	fashion	noun	1	A2	a style that is popular at a particular time, especially in clothes, hair, makeup, etc.	Long hair is back in fashion for men.	I like this present because I love clothes and fashion.
evp	fashion	noun	2	B1	making and selling clothes	the fashion industry	When I'm tired, I like reading fashion magazines.
evp	fashionable	adjective	1	B1	popular at a particular time	a fashionable nightclub/restaurant	There are some fashionable cafes, restaurants and museums.
evp	fast	adjective	1	A1	moving or happening quickly, or able to move or happen quickly	fast cars	I like fast music very much.
evp	fast	adjective	2	C2	doing or getting the things that lead to rapid success and advancement	Their hard work and successful software put them in the fast lane.	Finally, should you ask why people are not happier than before, the answer is that nowadays they spend more hours on work than before because modern life is mostly a life in the fast lane.
evp	fast	adjective	3	C2	a very quick way of achieving or dealing with something	These intensive courses claim to offer a fast track to wealth and success.	If I ever found a job which lives up to these expectations, I would consider myself on the fast track already.
evp	fast	adverb	1	A2	moving or happening quickly	We ran as fast as we could.	I rode my bike home as fast as I could.
evp	fast	adverb	2	C2	in a firm or tight way	He tried to get away, but she held him fast.	Thankfully, there are those who still cling to such age-old values as personal contentment and growth, regarding them as the anchors which hold happiness fast.
evp	fast	adverb	3	C2	completely asleep	I looked into his room but he was still fast asleep.	Then she took a relaxing bath and 20 minutes later she was fast asleep.
evp	fasten	verb	1	B1	to close or attach something together, or to become closed or attached together	Fasten your seat belt.	She fell fast asleep and only woke to the sound of the announcement: "Ladies and gentlemen fasten your seat belts [-] in a couple of minutes we will be landing in Kingston".
evp	fasten	verb	2	B2	to attach one thing to another	He fastened the rope to a tree.	
evp	fast food	noun	1	A2	hot food that can be served very quickly because it is already prepared	fast food restaurants	We don't eat lots of fast food, usually I cook every day.
evp	fat	adjective	1	A1	Someone who is fat weighs too much.	He eats all the time but he never gets fat.	She is tall and a little bit fat.
evp	fat	noun	1	B2	a solid or liquid substance that is taken from animals or plants and used in cooking	This product contains no animal fat.	They should also consume as much salad as they can, due to the fact that it does not contain fat.
evp	fatal	adjective	1	B2	A fatal illness or accident causes death.	This illness is fatal in almost all cases.	Paul received a fatal shot in the head.
evp	fatal	adjective	2	B2	Fatal actions have very bad effects.	He made the fatal mistake/error of believing what they told him.	That was a fatal mistake because that person was my teacher and he wasn't so pleased about my behavior.
evp	fate	noun	1	B2	what happens to someone, especially something bad	We want to decide our own fate.	No one as powerless as him deserves this fate.
evp	fate	noun	2	B2	a power that some people believe decides what will happen	When we met again by chance in Cairo, I felt it must be fate.	But, little we did know what fate had in store for us.
evp	father	noun	1	A1	your male parent	My father took me to watch football every Saturday.	I got it from my father and mother.
evp	father-in-law	noun	1	B2	the father of your husband or wife	My father-in-law was a banker.	My father-in-law, I'm pretty sure, will be able to answer all your questions.
evp	fatty	adjective	1	C1	Fatty foods contain a lot of fat.	Try to cut down on eating fatty foods.	There is a greater reliance on fast food and fatty foods.
evp	faucet	noun	1	B1	the part at the end of a pipe that controls the flow of water	Turn on/off the faucet.	
evp	faultless	adjective	1	C2	perfect, or without any mistakes	a faultless performance	Children also need to be taught that parents are not faultless and the best way to teach a child to apologize is by doing it oneself after having treated the child unfairly]
evp	faulty	adjective	1	B2	not working correctly or not in perfect condition	faulty brakes	I do believe you should not mislead your readers by giving them faulty information.
evp	favor	noun	1	B1	something that you do to help someone	She called up to ask me a favor.	I need to ask you a favor.
evp	favor	noun	2	B2	to agree with or approve of a plan or idea	Most people are in favor of reducing traffic in cities.	I am more in favor of longer opening hours during the week, and of shorter ones on the weekend.
evp	favorable	adjective	1	B2	showing that you like or approve of someone or something, or making you support or approve of someone or something	She made a very favorable impression on us.	I would be glad if a favorable answer is given to my request.
evp	favorite	adjective	1	A1	best liked or most enjoyed	"What's your favorite color?" "Green."	My favorite place is the Hotel near Olomouc.
evp	favorite	noun	1	B1	a thing that someone likes best or enjoys most	How smart of you to buy chocolate chip cookies - they're my favorite.	Here in Mendoza there are very good restaurants, but one of them is my favorite and it's located in Godoy Cruz, Mendoza.
evp	fax	verb	1	B1	to send a document using a fax machine	Fax me your reply/Fax your reply to me.	I will ask one of my classmates to fax me the work you give, and I will try to do it.
evp	fear	noun	1	B1	a strong, unpleasant feeling that you get when you think that something bad, dangerous, or frightening might happen	her fear of snakes	I was afraid to eat it but after the first bite, I lost my fear.
evp	fear	noun	2	C2	because you are worried about something/doing something	I didn't want to move for fear of waking her up.	No one dared to turn around for fear of being bitterly disappointed.
evp	fear	verb	1	B2	to be worried or frightened that something bad might happen or might have happened	Police fear (that) the couple may have drowned.	Lots of changes which may occur during these next fifty years might make us fear that our sons' and grandsons' lives will not be as happy as ours.
evp	fear	verb	2	B2	to be frightened of something or someone	Most older employees fear unemployment.	I've always feared the dark.
evp	fear	verb	3	C2	to worry that something very bad will happen or that something very bad has happened	When there was no sign of the children, the rescuers feared the worst.	Her parents had been quarrelling constantly now for almost half a year, and she feared the worst.
evp	fearful	adjective	1	C2	frightened or worried	He was fearful of driving on the icy streets.	My mother is a very fearful person and when I was playing with other children in the sea I could not stand it when she interrupted our game all the time with the same words: "Do not do that and do not do this, it is too dangerous."
evp	fearless	adjective	1	C2	not frightened of anything	a fearless fighter	Yannis knew all about it, but he was fearless and stubborn, as people described him, willing to work hard and determined to succeed.
evp	feasible	adjective	1	C1	possible or reasonable and likely to do	a feasible plan	In the context of Singapore, where land is scarce and the widening or building of more roads is just not feasible, we have no choice but to choose what is best for everyone.
evp	feast	noun	1	C1	a large meal, especially to celebrate something special	Everyone cooked a different dish and we had quite a feast!	Finally, they have a feast with a lot of food and wine.
evp	feast	verb	1	C2	to eat a lot of food and enjoy it very much	We feasted on fried chicken, ice cream, and chocolate cake.	Some people think that traveling entails feasting on typical food and buying lots of clothes.
evp	feat	noun	1	C2	an act or achievement that shows great skill or strength	The Eiffel Tower is a remarkable feat of engineering.	Try as I might, getting good grades was always met more with a sense of mission accomplished - duly noted - than a feat worthy of congratulations.
evp	feat	noun	2	C2	used when you want to emphasize that an act or achievement is very difficult	Learning to ski at 60 is no mean feat!	There was an interesting discussion about whether it was harder or easier for them to enter the world of cinema, given their famous names. Both said that it was no mean feat because people were more demanding as to their abilities.
evp	feather	noun	1	B2	one of the soft, light things that grow from and cover a bird's skin	I found a peacock's feather.	Birds were cleaning their feathers and singing morning songs, monkeys were jumping at the top of an old tree in the corner of the monastery yard.
evp	feature	noun	1	B2	a typical quality, or an important part of something	The town's main features are its beautiful mosque and ancient marketplace.	He explained the features of the new product to the rest of his colleagues.
evp	feature	noun	2	B2	Someone's features are the parts of their face that you notice when you look at them.	His eyes are his best feature.	They have similar figures, and the features of their faces are nearly the same.
evp	feature	noun	3	C2	a special article in a newspaper or magazine, or a special television program	a double-page feature on global warming	As a regular reader of the student magazine "Uni," I read with particular interest last week's feature on political thrillers.
evp	feature	verb	1	B2	to include someone or something as an important part	The film features James Dean as a disaffected teenager.	I truly hope that the festival next year will feature more of the plays.
evp	February	noun	1	A1	the second month of the year, after January and before March	the 28th of February/February 28(th)	I'll begin on February 21st at 10:00 a.m.
evp	federal	adjective	1	C1	relating to the central government of some countries	the federal government	The federal government spending is lower compared to the USA, which will be discussed in the latter part of the report.
evp	federation	noun	1	C1	a group of organizations, countries, regions, etc. that have joined together to form a larger organization or government	Canada is a federation of provinces and territories.	In Yugoslavia sports was an important factor contributing to the overall stability of the federation.
evp	fed up	adjective	1	B2	annoyed or bored by something that you have experienced for too long	I'm fed up with my job.	I'm sure that the whole world is fed up with Mozart.
evp	fee	noun	1	B1	an amount of money that you pay to do something, to use something, or to get a service	legal/late fees	Before I can enter the club I must to pay an entrance fee of fifteen dollars.
evp	feeble	adjective	1	C2	extremely weak	She became too feeble to get out of bed.	Most of the times, the owner is a decrepit and feeble old man, who can hardly hear you, but who can be a magnificent narrator.
evp	feeble	adjective	2	C2	not very good or effective	a feeble argument/excuse	Some of the passengers began to pray under their breath, in a feeble attempt to suppress their panic.
evp	feed	verb	1	B1	to give food to a person, group or animal	I usually feed the neighbor's cat while she's away.	You can also ride horses and feed animals like rabbits, birds and hamsters.
evp	feed	verb	2	C1	If an animal or a baby feeds, it eats.	The caterpillars feed on cabbage leaves.	In the same way, animals killed plants and fed on them.
evp	feed	verb	3	C1	to supply something such as information to a person or a machine, especially in a regular or continuous way	We fed them false information about our plans.	For heaven's sake, the strike lasted for three weeks not three years. [...] They feed you with lies.
evp	feedback	noun	1	B2	information or opinions about something, such as a new product, that provide an idea of whether it is successful or liked	Have you had any feedback from customers about the product?	I am writing to you to give you feedback about the social program.
evp	feel	verb	1	A1	to experience something physical or emotional	"How are you feeling?" "Not too bad, but I've still got a headache."	I like Prague, because it is place where I feel good.
evp	feel	verb	2	B1	to have a feeling or idea about something that you have experienced even though it is not true	I feel as if I've known you for ages.	I feel like I've been here for ages.
evp	feel	verb	3	B1	to have a wish for something, or to want to do something, at a particular moment	I feel like going for a swim.	The weather is warm and I feel like swimming.
evp	feel	verb	4	B1	to seem to be similar to a type of person, thing, or situation	My feet feel like blocks of ice.	In front of these big towers, I feel like a tiny insect!
evp	feel	verb	5	B1	to think something or have an opinion	I feel (that) I should be doing more to help her.	The more he got close to this man, the more he felt sure it was Chris, who died in a car crash in April 1972.
evp	feel	verb	6	B1	to feel sympathy for someone because they are in a difficult situation	I feel so sorry for the children - it must be really hard for them.	Anyway, I feel sorry for her and I wonder: what would I do if I were her?
evp	feel	verb	7	B1	to feel happy and confident in a place or situation	After a month she felt at home in her new job.	I explained: "I was in Manchester for just 10 months and during that time the people from there made me feel at home so I feel proud to have the accent."
evp	feel	verb	8	B2	to touch something, especially with your hands, in order to examine it	I felt his head and it was hot.	I tried to open the heavy door; I could feel the iron bar with my almost frozen fingers.
evp	feel	verb	9	B2	If a place, situation, etc., feels different, strange, etc., that is how it seems to you, or that describes your experience of it.	It felt strange to see him again after so long.	It felt strange and yet so wonderful to ski in the summer!
evp	feel	verb	10	B2	to be aware of something	I could feel them watching me.	I could feel the silence.
evp	feel	verb	11	C1	to feel that you should do something	He felt compelled to resign from his job.	As a member of the International Student's Sports Club, I felt compelled to write this article in answer to the previous article about how today's youth is putting sports and healthy activities aside.
evp	feel	verb	12	C2	to feel very weak and as if you might fall down	Seeing all the blood made me feel faint.	Starting to feel faint, Fred quickly roused himself and ran out of the hotel as quickly as he could.
evp	feeling	noun	1	B1	emotion	a feeling of joy/sadness	When I'm walking alone I can think about all my feelings, combine them into one and the name of this feeling is love.
evp	feeling	noun	2	B1	Your feelings are your beliefs and emotions, especially those influenced by other people.	You can't hide your feelings from me.	I can't explain my feelings.
evp	feeling	noun	3	B1	an idea that something is true or exists	I had the strange feeling that we had met before.	When I saw the policeman['s] face I got a bad feeling about this man. He didn't look like a cop but he was dressed like one, so I decided to stay away from this guy.
evp	feeling	noun	4	B1	when you feel something physical	I've got this odd feeling in my stomach.	After one hour I was home and still had the feeling of warm rain touching my skin.
evp	feeling	noun	5	B2	an opinion or belief	My feeling is that we had better act quickly or it will be too late.	My feeling is that we should simply buy what we want to buy and not what we are prompted to buy.
evp	feeling	noun	6	C2	anger, unhappiness, or lack of trust	I hope you don't have any hard feelings.	There were no hard feelings anymore.
evp	fellow	adjective	1	B2	describes someone who has the same job or interests as you, or is in the same situation as you	She introduced me to some of her fellow students.	In conclusion, I have to declare that [I] myself and my fellow students will be available to help with this short video.
evp	female	adjective	1	B1	belonging or relating to women, or to the sex that can produce eggs or have babies	a female athlete/employee	All my female friends at school say that he is an attractive young man.
evp	female	noun	1	B2	a female animal or person	The kitten was actually a female, not a male.	We all know the problems that are caused by having animals kept in a zoo: females refuse the males, or they become mad from the lack of freedom.
evp	feminine	adjective	1	C1	showing qualities that people generally think are typical of women	a feminine voice	When my grandmother was a young women, it was a must for her to wear a dress or at least a skirt and a very feminine blouse.
evp	fence	noun	1	B2	a wood, wire or metal structure which divides or goes around an area of land	a garden fence	I looked around to make sure that no-one saw me and jumped over the fence.
evp	ferry	noun	1	B1	a boat that regularly carries passengers and often vehicles across an area of water	a car ferry	We are planning to go to the "Red Island", which is just 15 minutes from Rovigno by ferry.
evp	fertile	adjective	1	C2	Fertile land or soil produces a lot of healthy plants.	They settled in the fertile river valleys.	We had an enormous backyard with the most fertile soil where we grew all sorts of vegetables.
evp	festival	noun	1	B1	a series of special events, performances, etc. that often takes place over several days	a film/music/jazz festival	I decided to go to that city because of the film festival that was going to happen.
evp	festival	noun	2	B1	a special day or period when people celebrate something, especially a religious event	a harvest festival	I like to dress up traditionally during festivals.
evp	fever	noun	1	B1	when someone's body temperature rises because they are ill	He's got a headache and a high/slight fever.	I understood that she was alone with her brother and he has a fever.
evp	fever	noun	2	C2	when people are very excited about something	Election fever has gripped the nation.	It was then when they started to build enormous buildings and skyscrapers all around. The "building fever" had started.
evp	fiction	noun	1	B1	literature and stories about imaginary characters and events	The book is a work of fiction and not intended as a historical account.	In his fiction, one can detect traces of different literary schools.
evp	fiction	noun	2	C1	something that is not true or real	Nobody knows whether his statement is fact or fiction.	On the other hand they were hardly available after lessons, so "the individual tuition on demand" the school offers in the advertisement turned out to be a fiction.
evp	fictional	adjective	1	C2	existing only in fiction	a fictional character	What he is especially known and admired for are his fictional but memorable characters, which became almost archetypes in literature.
evp	field	noun	1	A2	an area of land used for growing crops or keeping animals	corn fields	You could spend hours walking in wonderful forests and fields.
evp	field	noun	2	B1	an area of grass used for playing sports	the school sports fields	They have chosen our school because it has got a lot of things such as basketball courts and baseball fields.
evp	field	noun	3	B2	an area of study or activity	He's an expert in the field of biochemistry.	This time it is the case of telecommunications, tomorrow it will be the time of advances in the field of medicine.
evp	field	noun	4	C2	the people competing in a race, activity, or business	We lead the field in genetic research.	Brian Moore leads the field with a style that can only be called immaculate.
evp	field	noun	5	C2	an area of land covered with or containing a lot of a particular substance	an oil/gas/coal field	Our tour took also us to see the lower fields; from where the tour bus stops to the end of the lava fields, which is in the sea, it takes about thirty minutes walking.
evp	fierce	adjective	1	B2	violent or angry	a fierce dog	This may surprise some of you who have always thought of the tiger as a fierce and dangerous beast.
evp	fierce	adjective	2	B2	very strong or powerful	Fierce winds/storms battered the coast all weekend.	The need for darkness was justified by the fierce thunderstorm, which seemed likely to smash the house into pieces.
evp	fierce	adjective	3	B2	showing strong feeling or energetic activity	The expansion plans will face fierce opposition/resistance from environmentalists.	Nowadays, family life importance is a matter that arouses fierce passions.
evp	fifteen	noun	1	A1	the number 15	thirteen, fourteen, fifteen, sixteen	It is fifteen years old and it is in good condition.
evp	fifth	noun	1	B1	one of five equal parts of something	One fifth is the same as 20 percent.	
evp	fifty	noun	1	A2	the number 50	forty, fifty, sixty	There were fifty guests at my party.
evp	fifty	noun	2	B2	to be aged between 50 and 59	He retired when he was still in his fifties.	Despite being in my fifties I am healthy and in good shape.
evp	fifty	noun	3	B2	the years 1950 through 1959	Many new suburbs were built in the fifties.	I love bands from the fifties, sixties, seventies . . . and most of the radio stations seem to forget that the music has a history and it is always nice to remember past songs, because a good song will always be a good song.
evp	fight	verb	1	B1	to use physical force to try to defeat another person or group of people	Two men were fighting outside the park.	She was very tired and afraid, so I decided to help her by going to the "Blue Forest", and I remember I fought with the wizards.
evp	fight	verb	2	B2	to take part in a war	Millions of young men fought in the First World War.	He fought in the Spanish Civil war and in World War II.
evp	fight	verb	3	B2	to argue	We've got to stop fighting in front of the children.	Then I became angry again because although I spent my day doing nothing, I didn't buy a present for my sister, and when I went home we fought.
evp	fight	verb	4	B2	to try hard to stop something bad happening	He fought against racism.	The other great advantage is that it is a nice way of fighting against pollution.
evp	fight	verb	5	B2	to try hard to achieve something you want or think is right	They are fighting for their freedom.	All of them were fighting for their cause.
evp	fight	noun	1	B1	when people use physical force to hurt or attack others	Jeff's always getting into/starting fights.	My son got into a fight on his way from the school to the house and he had a black eye.
evp	fight	noun	2	B2	when you use a lot of effort to achieve or stop something	Join us in our fight for freedom!	I was sitting like every evening in my armchair, reading my favorite book "My fight for Irish freedom" and suddenly the lights went out.
evp	fight	noun	3	B2	an argument	I don't want to have a fight over this.	I had a fight with my mother and she told me off in front of my friends.
evp	fighting	noun	1	B2	when people fight, especially in a war	Fierce fighting has continued all day.	[Kung-fu] is not only a way of fighting, it is also a way of life.
evp	figure	noun	1	B1	the symbol for a number or an amount expressed in numbers	Can you read this figure? Is it a three or an eight?	More than 5,000 were present, so I don't understand why you mention the figure 2,000.
evp	figure	noun	2	B1	the shape of someone's body, usually an attractive shape	She's got a good figure.	She has long blond hair and blue eyes. She has a good figure.
evp	figure	noun	3	B2	a particular type of person, often someone important or famous	Lincoln was a major figure in American politics.	She is an important figure in Argentina.
evp	figure	noun	4	B2	a person that you cannot see clearly	I could see two tall figures in the distance.	Suddenly a figure appeared in front of us.
evp	figure	noun	5	B2	a picture or drawing in a book or document, usually with a number	Figure 10.3 shows the maximum length of the bridges.	Figure 1 demonstrates the use of electricity in England in summer and winter.
evp	figure	noun	6	C1	a number that expresses an amount, especially in official documents	The latest figures show a rise in unemployment.	They do not have any avenues of change until they migrate to cities, which only 15% of villagers do in Pakistan according to government figures.
evp	figure	verb	1	B1	to decide something or expect something to happen after thinking about it	They figured (that) about twenty people would be there.	I see you have difficulty figuring where to go, but if you really want my opinion I do recommend the countryside as it's filled with peaceful silence and beautiful views all around.
evp	figure	verb	2	B2	to finally understand something or someone	I can't figure out why he did it.	I couldn't figure out what had happened.
evp	file	noun	1	A2	a collection of information such as text, pictures or computer programs stored together electronically with a single name	What's the file name?	I need the computer to save all my files.
evp	file	noun	2	A2	a collection of information and documents about someone or something	a project/subject/research file	I think I've left the file near the table in the drawing room.
evp	fill	verb	1	A2	to make a container or space full, or to become full	I filled the bucket with water.	It was really hot, even for a summer day, but we were refreshed by a beautiful waterfall that we stopped at to fill our water bottle.
evp	fill	verb	2	B1	If people or things fill a space, there are a lot of them in it.	Dark clouds filled the sky.	Suddenly clouds filled the sky with darkness.
evp	fill	verb	3	B1	If light, sound, or a smell fills a place, you can easily notice it.	The smell of smoke filled the room.	The class was filled with the sound of laughing.
evp	fill	verb	4	B2	to make someone feel very angry/happy/proud, etc.	The thought of losing him filled her with fear.	Nobody was talking and the 50 passengers were filled with terror.
evp	fill	verb	5	C1	to give a job or position to someone	I'm sorry, the job/position/post/vacancy has already been filled.	Suppose if ten people retire from an organization, the vacancies are filled by bringing up the middle management and their previous positions will be filled be lower management.
evp	fill	verb	6	C2	to provide something that people need or want	The new nursery is really filling a need.	I had nearly finished my study and had an idea to start a small software company, filling a gap in the market that was overlooked by the larger I.T. companies.
evp	fill	verb	7	A2	to write the necessary information on an official document	to fill in/out a form/questionnaire	Please fill in my form.
evp	fill	verb	8	B1	to become full, or to make something become full	The seats in the hall were filling up fast.	I bought that couch just to fill up the space left.
evp	film	noun	1	B1	a story shown in moving pictures, shown at a movie theater or on television	She's an artist who makes experimental films.	I like watching documentary films about animals (especially, about dolphins and elephants, like you do).
evp	film	noun	2	C2	a thin layer of something on a surface	A film of oil glistened on the surface of the water.	The walls were covered with a thin film of water.
evp	film	verb	1	B1	to record moving pictures with a camera, usually to make a movie	Most of the scenes were filmed in a studio.	So he had put it into his cupboard which was just open and the burglar hadn't noticed the camera which filmed all his actions.
evp	film-maker	noun	1	B1	a film director, especially an independent one who has control over how the film is made	one of the industry's top film-makers.	The plot i] about a film-maker and his difficulties in finishing his last film.
evp	filthy	adjective	1	C1	extremely dirty	Wash your hands, they're filthy!	Although the listening area is enormous, it is filthy and there are papers everywhere.
evp	filthy	adjective	2	C1	rude or offensive	filthy language/jokes	As far as books are concerned, pornography and filthy language is evident everywhere, to lure people to buy these books.
evp	final	adjective	1	A2	last in a series or coming at the end of something	a final warning/offer	I need them immediately as my final exam is the day after tomorrow.
evp	final	adjective	2	C2	If a decision, agreement, or answer is final, it will not be changed or discussed any more.	The committee's decision is final.	It was the sort of statement that you know is final, and Mr. Cameron perceived this.
evp	final	noun	1	B1	the last in a series of games, races or competitions, usually the one in which the winner is chosen	They're in the final.	We were in the final, but we lost.
evp	finally	adverb	1	A2	after a long time or some difficulty	We finally got home at midnight.	Well, I have finally decided that I will paint my room blue.
evp	finally	adverb	2	B1	used especially at the beginning of a sentence to introduce the last point or idea	Finally, I'd like to thank everyone for coming this evening.	Finally, I want you to say hi to everybody and I am looking forward to seeing you.
evp	finance	noun	1	B2	the control of how large amounts of money should be spent	You need to speak to someone in the finance department.	Therefore we decided to invite a minister of finance to explain it.
evp	finance	noun	2	B2	the money which a person, company or country has	We keep a tight control on the organization's finances.	First of all, we should budget our finances better.
evp	finance	verb	1	B2	to provide the money needed for something to happen	The developer is still looking for a way to finance the new stadium.	I am applying for this job because I want to earn some money to finance my study.
evp	financial	adjective	1	B1	relating to money or how money is managed	They're having a few financial difficulties at the moment.	The person described himself as a financial officer of a South African government and needs a contact person in Switzerland to transfer 200 m dollars.
evp	financially	adverb	1	B2	in a way that relates to money or how money is managed	He's still financially dependent on his parents.	They advise them or help them financially.
evp	find	verb	1	A1	to discover something or someone that you have been searching for	I couldn't find Andrew's telephone number.	I can't find my cd, can you bring some music please?
evp	find	verb	2	A2	to discover something unexpectedly	I found some money in my coat pocket.	Miss Murphy said that she had found my diary in a street near the airport.
evp	find	verb	3	B1	to become aware that something exists or has happened	We came home to find (that) the cat had had kittens.	I found that the food inside there is very nice.
evp	find	verb	4	B1	to think or feel a particular way about someone or something	Do you find Clive difficult to talk to?	I found it very amusing.
evp	find	verb	5	B1	to have or get enough money/time, etc. to do something	Where do you find the money to do all these things?	You can even go somewhere with your friends and have fun with them: if you do both things everyone will be happy, you have three months: you can find the time to do everything.
evp	find	verb	6	B2	to become aware that you have gone somewhere or done something without intending to	I suddenly found myself making lunch.	The most embarrassing moment of my life was when, during a school trip to Paris, a friend of mine and I went to the wrong room and found ourselves in front of our teacher who, having had a shower, was looking for his glasses.
evp	find	verb	7	B2	to exist or be present somewhere	Many plant and animal species are found only in the rainforests.	An example might be the k]oal bear, which could be found almost everywhere in Australia not so long ago.
evp	find	verb	8	B2	to judge that someone is guilty or not guilty in a law court	She was found guilty of murder.	To the surprise of everyone in the village, the judge found her guilty but didn't send her to jail because he thought she should take care of Linda, who had no other relatives.
evp	find	verb	9	C2	to criticize someone or something, especially without good reasons	She was always finding fault with our work.	Sometimes I take offence at their trying to find fault with me and I am not allowed to answer back.
evp	find	verb	10	A2	to get information about something, or to learn a fact for the first time	How did you find out about the party?	I was at home when I found out that I had lost my cell-phone.
evp	fine	adjective	1	A1	well, healthy, or happy	"How are you?" "I'm fine, thanks."	I'm fine.
evp	fine	adjective	2	A1	used to agree with a suggestion, idea, etc.	"Should we meet at 8 o'clock?" "Yes, that's fine."	If you want to meet me on Monday, that's fine.
evp	fine	adjective	3	A2	good or good enough	"Is this soup hot enough?" "Yes, it's fine."	
evp	fine	adjective	4	B1	sunny and not raining	It should be a fine day tomorrow.	[The] weather is fine.
evp	fine	adjective	5	B2	excellent or much better than average	a fine musician/artist	There we will be served a fine dinner.
evp	fine	adjective	6	C1	a very small difference between two things that may seem different	There's a fine line between courage and foolishness.	It took me 6 months to realize that there is a fine line between telling off and psychological abuse.
evp	fine	adjective	7	C2	thin or made of very small pieces	fine, brown hair	They got their hands on some anthrax bacteria, grew them in petri dishes and with all her knowledge in biology managed to make anthrax spores. Her friends ground the clumps of spores into fine particles.
evp	fine	noun	1	B1	an amount of money that you must pay for breaking a rule or law	She had to pay a fine.	She was made to pay a fine and she wasn't sent to prison.
evp	fine	verb	1	B2	to charge someone an amount of money as a punishment for not obeying a rule or law	Drivers who break the speed limit can expect to be fined heavily.	Besides, you can be fined by the police.
evp	fine	adverb	1	B2	very well or without any problems	"How did your exam go?" "It went fine, I think."	The couple was great and everything went fine.
evp	finely	adverb	1	B2	into small pieces	Finely chop the onion.	
evp	finger	noun	1	A2	one of the long, thin parts of the hand that hold things, including the thumb	He noticed her long delicate fingers.	Then my mother brought the cake and while she was lighting the candles she burned her finger.
evp	finger	noun	2	C2	to hope that things will happen in the way that you want them to, and to put a finger over the one next to it as a sign of that hope	Let's keep our fingers crossed that she gets the job.	Wish me luck, Winnie," she sighed "keep your fingers crossed, please."
evp	finger	noun	3	C2	to understand exactly why a situation is the way it is	Something was wrong, but I couldn't put my finger on it.	Something sinister about the picture, he felt, but he couldn't put his finger on what made him think this]
evp	finger	noun	4	C2	to be/stay familiar with the most recent changes or improvements	The situation changes daily, so you've got to keep your finger on the pulse.	It wouldn't be clever to hire people who are completely ignorant about music and they must constantly keep their finger on the pulse of the music industry.
evp	fingernail	noun	1	B2	the hard part that covers and protects the top of the end of your finger	dirty/long fingernails	Half way through dinner we had discussed almost everything about him: his lips, fingernails, how he would look in swim trunks how he would dance, etc.
evp	finish	verb	1	A1	to complete something, or come to the end of an activity	I'll call you when I've finished my homework.	I have finished my course.
evp	finish	verb	2	A1	to end	The meeting should finish around four o'clock.	I will finish work at five o'clock.
evp	finish	verb	3	B1	to eat, drink or use something completely so that none remains	He finished his coffee and left.	
evp	finish	verb	4	B2	to complete the last part of something that you are doing	I want to finish off this essay before I go to bed.	
evp	finish	noun	1	B1	the end of a race, or the last part of something	a close finish	We had a race and I came second at the finish.
evp	finite	adjective	1	C2	having a limit or end	We only have a finite amount of time to complete this task.	Last but not least, the problem of pollution. It is recognized as an increased hazard in modern society and if we take into account that the air we breathe is finite, we should do our best to restrict the main culprits such as cars, factories, insecticides and so on.
evp	fire	noun	1	A2	heat, light, and flames that are produced when something burns	The library was badly damaged in the fire.	Yesterday I bought very cool clothes. [...] I bought them because yesterday all my shoes and T-shirts were burned in a fire.
evp	fire	noun	2	B1	to start burning	The car crashed and caught fire.	One of the new machines that I had brought from Germany had caught fire.
evp	fire	noun	3	B1	If something is on fire, it is burning when it should not be.	If your home was on fire and you could save only one thing, what would it be?	A lot of buildings were on fire.
evp	fire	noun	4	B1	a small controlled fire that is used for heating or cooking	It's very cold in here - should I light a fire?	In the evenings we sat down o] the grass round a fire and talked to each other.
evp	fire	noun	5	C2	the shooting of guns and other weapons	The soldiers opened fire.	Suddenly, one of the thieves opened fire.
evp	fire	noun	6	C2	to be criticized	The government has come under fire for closing the hospital.	
evp	fire	noun	7	C2	to make something start burning, usually to cause damage	Enemy troops set fire to the village.	At this point nothing made sense anymore, so I just watched while Jake set the car on fire.
evp	fire	noun	8	C2	to be involved in an activity that could be dangerous	We're playing with fire if we continue with genetic modification of our food.	Stop playing with fire or World War 3 might come in the shape of a nuclear war.
evp	fire	verb	1	B2	to cause a weapon to shoot bullets, arrows or missiles	He fired his gun into the air.	Martins found Lime on an iron staircase and fired a last shot, killing Lime.
evp	fire	verb	2	B2	to tell someone they must leave their job	She was fired after she was caught stealing from her employer.	Last month I was fired from my job in a bank.
evp	fire	verb	3	C2	to make someone very excited or interested in something	His paintings really fired my imagination.	The newspaper article on education that I read really fired my imagination and urged me to think about the points raised.
evp	fire department	noun	1	B2	an organization that is in charge of preventing and stopping unwanted fires	Someone called the fire department, and the blaze was quickly put out.	The first thing I've done was call the fire department but they told me the it would take some time because they had another building on fire in another part of town.
evp	firefighter	noun	1	B1	a person whose job is to stop fires from burning	My cousin Mark is a firefighter.	We could see firefighters and ambulances coming from all over the premises!
evp	fireplace	noun	1	C2	a space in the wall of a room where you can have a fire, or the structure around this space	There was a large fireplace in the living room.	They were sitting in front of the fireplace, in a tiny cottage.
evp	fire station	noun	1	B1	the building where fire engines are kept and firefighters wait for emergencies	We visited our local fire station.	I only saw M[r]. Bean from my classroom window - they were filming him running to the fire station.
evp	firework	noun	1	B1	a small object that explodes to produce a loud noise and bright colors, often used to celebrate special events	a fireworks display	We have spent three days at Disneyland, watching fireworks every night.
evp	firm	adjective	1	B2	not soft, but not completely hard	A firm mattress is better for your back.	
evp	firm	adjective	2	B2	certain or fixed and not likely to change	We don't have any firm plans for the weekend yet.	It is my firm belief that I would use all the experience I have.
evp	firm	adjective	3	C2	strict and making certain that people do what you want	You've got to be firm with children.	Being an officer, my father was rather firm with my sister and me.
evp	firm	adjective	4	C2	strong and tight	a firm handshake/grip	The teacher, Miss Parchman, keeping a firm grip on his hand, took Peter outside of the classroom in order to get him calm.
evp	firm	noun	1	B2	a company or business	He works for a law firm called Neil and Vigliano.	The only thing I could remember was that the meeting was set up at 9 a.m. and that a law firm in Zurich was looking for a secretary.
evp	firmly	adverb	1	B2	in a way that is certain or fixed	I firmly believe that we must take action on this.	I firmly believe that some of the things you mentioned are wrong.
evp	firmly	adverb	2	B2	strongly; in a way that will not become loose	Make sure the rope is firmly attached before attempting to climb down it.	Slowly but firmly I grabbed the door handle, took another quick glance in the room, and turned it.
evp	first	adjective	1	A1	coming before all others	This is my first trip to New York.	Near the city there is the first championship golf course in Slovakia.
evp	first	adjective	2	A2	most important, top	Sheila won first prize in the photo competition.	It was good because my cousin played and won the first prize.
evp	first	adjective	3	B2	at the start of a situation	Why did you invite her in the first place?	In the first place, you were unknown people for me, but now you are my special foreign friends.
evp	first	adverb	1	A1	before everything or everyone else	I can come out tonight, but I've got to do my homework first.	I have to go to the dentist first!
evp	first	adverb	2	A2	before anything else	First of all, I’d like to ask you a few questions.	Dear Pat: first of all, thanks for your invitation.
evp	first	adverb	3	B1	for the first time	When did you first meet each other?	I first heard of it o] the radio and then I saw a leaflet about it.
evp	first	adverb	4	B1	used to introduce the first idea, reason, etc., in a series	First, I want to thank my parents.	First we all met in "Linda's cafe" and brought our bikes with us, then we started our trip to Texas.
evp	first	adverb	5	B1	at the beginning of a situation or period of time	At first I thought she was unfriendly, but actually she's just shy.	At first, when I arrived I was very nervous because I didn't know anyone, but then a girl started talking to me and I felt better.
evp	first	adverb	6	C1	more than anything else	In spite of being elected to office, she remains first and foremost a writer.	First and foremost it is my longing to help others with what they cannot do for themselves.
evp	first	adverb	7	C1	when you first see or hear about something or someone	It may, at first sight, seem a surprising choice.	I must admit that, at first sight, I did not feel like reading it, but later I made up my mind and decided to accept your invitation.
evp	first	adverb	8	C1	to be the most important person or thing	Her career always comes first.	They do not take the time to sit down and enjoy being with their family. The work comes first, and the family next.
evp	first	adverb	9	C2	to consider someone or something to be the most important thing	Most couples put their children first.	On the other hand, we forget about our personality and the worth that we have as individuals; we put our wishes first, rather than what we really need in life.
evp	first	noun	1	B1	the first person or thing to do or be something, or the first person or thing mentioned	Tonight sees the first of three documentaries about cancer.	I prefer the first because it's an exciting story of a cat that escapes from a dangerous house lived in by an aggressive dog.
evp	first	noun	2	C2	to be something that has never happened before	Winning the state championship was a first for out school.	
evp	the first floor	noun	1	B1	the floor of a building that is at the same level as the ground outside	She works on the first floor.	My bedroom is on the first floor.
evp	first-floor	adjective	1	B1	on the first floor	a first-floor apartment/office/classroom	
evp	first language	noun	1	B2	the language that someone learns to speak first	Madeleine's first language is French, but she also speaks English fluently.	Originally I come from Germany and therefore my first language is German.
evp	firstly	adverb	1	B2	used to refer to the first thing in a list	There are two very good reasons why we can't do it. Firstly, we don't have enough money, and secondly, we don't have enough time.	I think it would suit us, firstly because it is good work experience, and secondly because we can get discounts on books and CDs.
evp	first name	noun	1	A2	the personal name that was given to you when you were born and that is not your family's name	It can be rude to call someone by their first name if they are much older or more important than you.	After that he asked the students to introduce themselves, and he easily learned the first names of the students and addressed them by their first name except me and it really annoyed me.
evp	the first person	noun	1	B2	the form of a verb or pronoun that is used when people are speaking or writing about themselves. For example, "I" and "we" are first person pronouns.	Autobiographies are written in the first person.	
evp	fish	noun	1	A1	an animal that lives only in water and swims using its tail and fins	Several large fish live in the pond.	We are going to go to an even larger (no, the largest) river to catch fish next week!!
evp	fish	noun	2	A1	fish eaten as food	fried fish	Usually in Spain every day the people eat potatoes and salads with fish or meat.
evp	fish	verb	1	B1	to try to catch fish	They're fishing for tuna.	In the countryside the air is pure and you can fish in lakes or walk in fields.
evp	fisherman	noun	1	B2	someone who catches fish as a job or as a hobby	Local fishermen are finding it difficult to make a living.	His father was a fisherman and he died working just a few days before he was born, so the child had never met him.
evp	fishing	noun	1	A2	the sport or job of catching fish	My dad loves to go fishing.	We can go fishing or hunting.
evp	fist	noun	1	C2	a hand closed into a ball with the fingers and thumb curled tightly together	He banged his fist down angrily on the table.	He slammed his fists against the door and yelled out several times but to no response.
evp	fit	verb	1	B1	to be the right size or shape for someone or something	That jacket fits you perfectly.	I never go shopping for clothes, I only go shopping like once a year to buy shoes when the ones I have don't fit me.
evp	fit	verb	2	B1	If people or things fit somewhere, or if you can fit them somewhere, that place is big enough for them.	How many people can you fit in your car?	The desk has to be very small and has to fit into the corner, because there is not much space left in my bedroom.
evp	fit	verb	3	C1	to be the same as or like something	She seems to fit the description.	The accommodations I had during the trip didn't fit the description in the advertisement and neither did the restaurants or the cultural activities.
evp	fit	verb	4	C1	to be suitable for something	The job fits him well.	You ought to put on a formal dress or suit to fit the atmosphere.
evp	fit	verb	5	B2	to feel that you belong to a particular group and are accepted by them	He doesn't fit in with the other pupils in his class.	I do not think it is a good idea to advertise the club in a big way, it would not be very serious of us. We could tell only the people that we think could fit in.
evp	fit	verb	6	B2	If one thing fits in with another thing, it belongs with them or they are suitable for each other.	It's a very nice sofa but it doesn't fit in with the rest of
the furniture.	Nevertheless, there was something that wouldn't fit in with what Rollo would hear from Harry's friends.
evp	fit	verb	7	C1	If something fits in with a situation, idea, method, etc., it is suitable and works successfully as part of it.	Changing location fits in with their plans to expand the business.	In conclusion, I think your wedding day should be about you and your partner and the wedding celebrations should fit in with your combined ideas and cultures and wants to make it a memorable occasion for you and not to satisfy other people.
evp	fit	adjective	1	A2	healthy and strong, especially as a result of exercise	I joined a gym to get fit.	Many of people in my country try to be fit and every day for breakfast eat yogurt with flakes and fruits.
evp	fit	adjective	2	C1	of a good enough quality or suitable type for a particular purpose	He isn't fit to be treasurer.	It has undergone restoration recently and is now fit to serve as a perfect example of a model and modern British college library.
evp	fit	adjective	3	C2	believe to be what is good, correct, or necessary	You can leave it here or take it home with you, whichever you see fit.	I am, therefore, expressing my willingness, through this letter, to participate in this endeavor in whatever way you may see fit.
evp	fitness	noun	1	B1	the condition of being physically strong and healthy	I'm trying to improve my physical fitness by riding my bike to work.	I specially like fitness lessons.
evp	five	noun	1	A1	the number 5	Five, four, three, two, one, blast-off!	I will finish work at five o'clock.
evp	fix	verb	1	B1	to repair something	They couldn't fix my old computer, so I bought a new one.	One day while he was working in his office, he received a call from a client that told him to fix some computers in Spain, Rafael accepted.
evp	fix	verb	2	B1	to arrange or put in place	I need to fix my hair.	Secondly the women witch is going to get maried wears a very big whit dress and her best friend help her to fix her hair
evp	fix	verb	3	B2	to prepare a drink or meal	I'll fix you a sandwich.	W[o]ken up early by the birds and sunshine we headed downstairs to unpack and fix breakfast.
evp	fix	verb	4	B2	to decide a certain and exact date, time, or place	Should we fix a time for our next meeting?	If you are busy at that time, you can call them to fix a new date.
evp	fix	verb	5	B2	to fasten something in position so that it cannot move	We fixed the bookcase to the wall.	First of all, I have no problem parking my vehicle, as it can be fixed to any tree or gate.
evp	fix	verb	6	C2	in a difficult situation that causes you trouble or problems	He’s in a fix and needs our help.	She felt happy when I was down in the dumps or in a fix and kept on being jealous of me concerning trivial matters.
evp	fix	verb	7	B1	to repair of change something so it can be used or looks better	She's almost finished fixing up her new apartment.	But you can solve this problem in an easy way by just learning to fix up your bicycle, or taking it to the nearest repairing center.
evp	fixed	adjective	1	B2	arranged or decided already and not able to be changed	a fixed price	Usually you have a fixed time to listen to live music, but what if you are not able to go to the concert?
evp	fixed	adjective	2	C2	If your eyes are fixed on something, you are looking at it continuously.	a fixed stare	My eyes were fixed on those words which seemed to be dancing before me almost as if laughing at me.
evp	flag	noun	1	B1	a piece of cloth with a special design and colors, that is the symbol of a country or a group, or has a particular meaning	the Brazilian flag	And about my present from the USA: I really would like to have an authentic American flag, to decorate my bedroom ceiling.
evp	flair	noun	1	C1	a natural ability to do something well	She has a flair for languages.	She's an artist with a flair for promotion.
evp	flair	noun	2	C2	when you do something in an exciting and interesting way	He played with great imagination and flair.	If I must describe the service I should say that it is superb: the gentle waiters serve with flair as if it was a culinary cabaret.
evp	flame	noun	1	B2	hot, bright, burning gas produced by something on fire	The flames grew larger as the fire spread.	We were standing by the window and the flames were getting nearer and nearer.
evp	flame	noun	2	C2	to suddenly start burning	The car plunged down a hill and burst into flames.	When we turned it on, it burst into flames and before we could extinguish it, the fire destroyed my desk.
evp	flash	verb	1	B2	to shine brightly and suddenly, or to make something shine in this way	Stop flashing that light in my eyes!	As they were driving back, a light flashed, a crash sounded, then screams.
evp	flash	verb	2	C2	to appear for a short time, or to make something appear for a short time	An error message flashed on the screen.	
evp	flash	verb	3	C2	to move or happen quickly	A fire engine flashed by.	But one day an idea flashed through her mind.
evp	flash	noun	1	B2	a sudden bright light	The bomb exploded in a flash of yellow light.	At the same moment, that piece of unknown stuff sent towards me a flash of very bright light!
evp	flash	noun	2	B2	a piece of camera equipment that produces a bright light when you take a photograph in a dark place	Flash photography is not permitted anywhere in the museum.	
evp	flash	noun	3	C2	immediately, or very quickly	I'll be back in a flash.	He took it and, in a flash, he came up to the surface.
evp	flashback	noun	1	C2	when you suddenly remember something that happened in the past, often something bad	She suffered from flashbacks for years after the accident.	Margaret started to remember, yes; a sudden flashback brought her to the twenties, when she was still her mamma's little girl, all innocence and curls.
evp	flashback	noun	2	C2	part of a film or book that goes back in time to something that happened before the main story began	There are several flashbacks to the character's childhood.	Another way of increasing the reader's interest is the parallelism of both stories and the flashbacks she is always giving us to explain Olivia's experiences.
evp	flashlight	noun	1	B2	a small electric light that you hold in your hand	He lit the way with his flashlight.	I was going to get a flashlight in my room when I heard a strange noise.
evp	flat	adjective	1	B1	level and smooth, with no high, raised, or round parts	An ice rink needs to be completely flat.	The countryside is very flat and for this kind of holiday it's really perfect!!
evp	flat	adjective	2	B1	Flat shoes do not raise your feet far from the ground.	Wear flat shoes - you'll be on your feet all day.	In your last letter you wanted me to tell you about clothes. Well, as you know I'm tall so I always wear flat shoes in light colors like white, light green and blue.
evp	flat	adjective	3	B2	If a tire is flat, it does not contain enough air.	When I got to the car, I discovered I had a flat tire.	In the evening I got a flat tire, and because of this I got late to the show, when I got to my place, it was used (it cost a lot) and they took me to the cheapest seats, where I couldn't see a thing.
evp	flat	adjective	4	C2	If a drink is flat, it does not contain enough bubbles of gas.	If you don’t put the top back on the soda bottle, it will go flat.	
evp	flat	adverb	1	B2	in a level position, often against another surface	Lay the cloth flat across the table.	
evp	flat	adverb	2	B2	to fall over so that your face hits the ground, often in an embarrassing way	I stepped on the ice and fell flat on my face.	You can guess what happened next - I fell flat on my face right in the mud and I have never felt more embarrassed in my life!
evp	flat	adverb	3	C1	If an event or joke falls flat, it fails to have the effect that you wanted, such as making people laugh.	All the jokes in his speech fell flat.	The cultural visits fell flat in comparison to their expectations, although the sightseeing tour of Willstown was, as the students said, "fascinating."
evp	flatten	verb	1	C2	to become flat or to make something become flat	Roll out the dough into balls and flatten them slightly.	Another thing they accomplished was to stop people cutting down trees because they wanted to flatten the land.
evp	flavor	noun	1	B1	the way a food or drink tastes, or a particular taste itself	Add a little salt to bring out the flavor of the herbs.	You should try to offer a wider variety of flavors, instead of just coffee, chocolate and vanilla.
evp	flavor	noun	2	C2	a particular quality or style that something has	London has a very international flavor.	
evp	flaw	noun	1	C1	a mistake or bad characteristic that stops someone or something from being perfect	There's a flaw in your reasoning.	However, there were some minor flaws which I would like to give my view on.
evp	flawed	adjective	1	C2	not perfect, or containing mistakes	Diamonds are still valuable, even when they are flawed.	Some people see society as it stands today as inherently flawed, an amorphous group of people who follow and worship anyone that gives them pleasure and empty dreams of perfection.
evp	flawless	adjective	1	C2	with no mistakes or bad characteristics	a flawless complexion	All in all, it is a classic comedy with memorable dialogue and flawless performances.
evp	flee	verb	1	C1	to leave a place quickly because you are in danger or are afraid	Police think the suspect has now fled the country.	Of course most people on those boats were fleeing their country for religious or political reasons but I would have left Europe for the spirit of adventure.
evp	fleet	noun	1	C1	a group of ships, or all of the ships in a country's navy	The entire naval fleet was used for the operation.	The Spartans order the people of Athens to destroy their city walls and most of their remaining fleet.
evp	fleet	noun	2	C1	a group of vehicles that are owned and controlled by one person or organization	a fleet of aircraft/cars	In a simplified scenario one can consider when one has a fleet of cars, some manual and other automatic, and a pool of drivers who can only drive one type of car.
evp	flesh	noun	1	C2	the soft part of a person's or animal's body between the skin and bones	Large thorns dug into my flesh.	It smelled of rotting flesh.
evp	flesh	noun	2	C2	a member of your family	I can't hate him - he's my own flesh and blood.	On the other hand, another problem old people have to face is a feeling of not being useful to society and what proves this is that they are put into old people's homes even by their own flesh and blood.
evp	flexibility	noun	1	B2	the ability to change or be changed easily according to the situation	The advantage of this system is its flexibility.	Further personal strengths are good communication skills, being a good team player and flexibility.
evp	flexible	adjective	1	B2	able to change or be changed easily according to the situation	My schedule is quite flexible - I could arrange to meet with you any day next week.	In the advertisement it is said that you will have a lot of spare time but actually, you have flexible working hours and you never know whether you will have free time.
evp	flexible	adjective	2	C2	able to bend or to be bent easily	The cover is made of flexible plastic.	Another physical requirement is a flexible body. Flexibility and agility will be crucial factors in whether you will succeed or not.
evp	flight	noun	1	A2	a journey through air or space in an aircraft or other vehicle	I'll never forget my first flight.	I would like to rest because the flight will be very boring.
evp	flight	noun	2	C2	a set of stairs connecting one floor to another in a building	The elevator was broken so we had to climb six flights of stairs.	He descended a long flight of stairs and reached a door.
evp	float	verb	1	B1	to stay on the surface of a liquid and not sink, or to make something do this	Leaves were floating on the surface.	Finally we were floating on the sea, admiring the famous bay.
evp	float	verb	2	B1	to stay in the air, or move gently through the air	Fluffy white clouds were floating across the sky.	Suddenly, I saw a "thing" floating by the window, making noises and like nothing human.
evp	flood	verb	1	B1	If a place floods or is flooded, it becomes covered in water.	The town was flooded when the river overflowed its banks.	The city was flooded and too many people were dead.
evp	flood	verb	2	B2	to fill or enter a place in large numbers or amounts	She drew back the curtains and the sunlight came flooding in.	The Square is flooded with local merchants selling local food, folkloric clothing, and local wines.
evp	flood	verb	3	C2	to receive so many messages, phone calls, etc., that you cannot deal with them	We were flooded with calls from worried parents.	Soon he was being hired again and once word spread that the musician had returned, he was flooded with bookings.
evp	flood	noun	1	B1	a large amount of water covering an area that is usually dry	After the flood it took weeks for the water level to go down.	It was windy and raining with lots of floods.
evp	flood	noun	2	C2	a large number or amount of things or people that arrive at the same time	a flood of letters/calls	The sea of familiar faces brought a flood of memories rushing back.
evp	floor	noun	1	A1	a surface that you walk on inside a building	a wood/tile floor	Lily gave me a small toy cat. It can walk on the floor.
evp	floor	noun	2	A2	a particular level of a building	This building has five floors.	The new art class is on Tuesday on the first floor with Mrs. Keller.
evp	floor	noun	3	B1	an area where a particular activity happens	a dance floor	It has got a very big dance floor with a skillful jazz band.
evp	floppy	adjective	1	C2	soft and loose or hanging down loosely	a floppy hat	That puppy was the cutest thing: a tiny body, with floppy ears, a curious wet nose that wanted to sniff everything on its way, and huge cheerful eyes.
evp	flour	noun	1	B1	powder made from grain, especially wheat, used for making bread, cakes, pasta, pastry, etc.	Add the flour to the eggs and milk.	He told the family that it was arsenic in the flour.
evp	flourish	verb	1	C2	to grow or develop well	The company soon began to flourish under his expert management.	If parents try to understand why their children act the way they do and treat them with love and affection, then teenagers will flourish like flowers in the spring sunshine!
evp	flow	verb	1	B2	If something such as a liquid flows, it moves somewhere in a smooth, continuous way.	The river flows from the Andes into the Pacific Ocean.	Stockholm is the capital of Sweden and it is situated at the point where Norrstrom the outlet of Milowne flows out into the Baltic.
evp	flow	noun	1	B2	when something flows in one direction	the flow of a river	So, a possible solution is to build more roads and optimally design the roads and their subways, to make the flow of cars on the road quicker.
evp	flow	noun	2	C2	to do or accept what other people are doing because it is the easiest thing to do	Just relax and go with the flow!	At this stage of her progress towards knowing herself better she has accepted that life is a muddle and that to a certain extent one has to go with the flow.
evp	flower	noun	1	A1	the attractive, colored part of a plant where the seeds grow	wild flowers	You know I like flowers a lot.
evp	flu	noun	1	B1	an infectious illness which is like a very bad cold, but which causes a fever	a flu virus	I hope you're fine and you don't have the flu any more.
evp	fluctuate	verb	1	C2	to keep changing, especially in level or amount	Oil prices have fluctuated wildly in recent weeks.	During that period transportation by pipeline an road was slightly increasing while transportation by rail was fluctuating.
evp	fluency	noun	1	B2	when someone is fluent in a language	One of the requirements of the job is fluency in two or more
African languages.	So it is of the utmost importance for me to go to England in the very near future in order to improve my fluency in English.
evp	fluent	adjective	1	B2	able to use a language naturally without stopping or making mistakes	She's fluent in French.	I am fluent in French and English.
evp	fluent	adjective	2	B2	produced or done in a smooth, natural style	He speaks fluent Chinese.	I speak fluent English and German.
evp	fluently	adverb	1	B2	in a way that is fluent	I'd like to speak English fluently.	I can speak both English and Japanese fluently.
evp	fluid	noun	1	C2	a liquid	Drink plenty of fluids.	Healthy eating habits consist of lots of fruit and vegetables, calcium-rich products such as milk or cheese and plenty of fluids.
evp	fluid	adjective	1	C2	smooth and continuous with a flowing or changing quality	a dancer’s fluid movements	The third-person narration is fluid and delicate and enables us to gradually discover the characters' personalities and their reactions to the situations they are involved in.
evp	flute	noun	1	B1	a musical instrument in the shape of a tube that is held out to the side and played by blowing across a hole at one end	Ellen started learning the flute at the age of 12.	Now I know the history of the violin, flute, cello, viola, oboe, etc.
evp	fly	verb	1	A1	to travel through the air in an aircraft	I'm flying to Mumbai tomorrow.	I'm flying to Poland with my daughter.
evp	fly	verb	2	A2	When a bird, insect or aircraft flies, it moves through the air.	The plane was flying at 5000 feet.	The birds fly i] the sky.
evp	fly	verb	3	B2	to control an aircraft or other vehicle in air or space	She learned to fly at the age of 18.	Louise, you are the only one who can fly this spaceship now.
evp	fly	verb	4	C1	with a very high score or with great success	He passed the exam with flying colors.	Thr[o]u[gh] this, he was able to get his college degree and graduated with flying colors.
evp	fly	verb	5	C2	If time flies, it passes very quickly.	There was plenty to do, and the time flew.	But you have to enjoy it because time flies, and you will be old before you know it!
evp	fly	verb	6	C2	to take or send people or goods somewhere by aircraft	She was flown to the hospital by helicopter.	All supplies are flown in daily from Paris in order to ensure the highest quality available.
evp	fly	verb	7	C2	to be the opposite of what is usual or accepted	These recommendations fly in the face of previous advice on safe limits of consumption.	But when we have a look outside our wonderful world, we can easily see that this argument flies in the face of the facts.
evp	fly	noun	1	B1	a small insect with two wings	There were a lot of flies around.	In the afternoon we were just lying like dead flies on our beds.
evp	fog	noun	1	A2	thick cloud just above the ground or water that makes it difficult to see	Thick/Heavy fog has made driving conditions dangerous.	Imagine, in the morning there was fog, and it was a cold day.
evp	foggy	adjective	1	A2	with fog	a foggy day	It was a foggy afternoon and I was at home.
evp	fold	verb	1	B1	If you fold paper, cloth, etc., you bend it so that one part of it lies flat on top of another part.	I folded the letter in half and put it in an envelope.	And the next morning, I was here again to help them folding their stuff.
evp	folder	noun	1	A2	a piece of plastic or thick paper folded down the middle and used to hold loose papers	I keep all my bank statements in this folder.	I think I forgot my folder in your house.
evp	folder	noun	2	B1	a place on a computer where particular files are kept	I made a new folder on the C drive.	Computers are very important because we work with them, and we keep our secret folders and files in them]
evp	folk	noun	1	B1	music written and played in a traditional style	There are several venues for folk and jazz in the city.	I can sing most kinds of songs, such as pop music, folk.
evp	folk	adjective	1	B1	the traditional style of art, dancing, etc. among a particular group of people	She's studied the folk art of the region.	There are a lot of folk stories in Lithuania, and I would like to tell you one of them.
evp	folks	noun	1	B2	your parents	I'm going home to see my folks next weekend.	Please say hello to your folks for me, and write me!
evp	folks	noun	2	B2	people, especially those of a particular group or type	Some folks don't like SUVs.	Dear Cathy How are you? Everything all right? How are John and Richard? I miss you folks!
evp	follow	verb	1	A2	to move behind someone or something and go where they go	A dog followed us home.	I'll wait for you in the central square and you can follow me.
evp	follow	verb	2	A2	to travel along a street, path, road, etc.	Follow the main road down to the traffic light.	You can get to my house by following the road from the corner which is next to the playground.
evp	follow	verb	3	B1	to happen or come after something	There was a bang, followed by a cloud of smoke.	In the first lesson we started with some games, followed by work activities, like role plays and presentations.
evp	follow	verb	4	B1	to do what someone or something says you should do	Follow the instructions on the back of the package carefully.	I think I should follow her advice, shouldn't I?
evp	follow	verb	5	B1	to understand something	Could you repeat that? I didn't quite follow what you said.	It is very hard to follow the lesson because I can'[t] concentrate on the vocabulary.
evp	follow	verb	6	B2	used to introduce a list or description	The main reasons are as follows.	The errors made in the newspaper are as follows.
evp	follow	verb	7	C1	to be interested in an event or activity and watch its progress	I followed the trial closely.	I was happy to know you follow our national news.
evp	follow	verb	8	C2	used to say that if one thing is true, another thing will also be true	He's big, but it doesn't follow that he's strong.	It follows that they too do not have enough time.
evp	follow	verb	9	C2	to copy someone's behavior or ideas	You should follow Meg's example and tidy your room.	Thus they are encouraged to follow their example and change their character forever.
evp	follow	verb	10	C2	to do the same things in your life as someone else did, especially a member of your family	He followed in his father's footsteps and became an actor.	Her step-granddaughter gets fascinated with Olivia's story and this fascination draws her to India to follow in her footsteps.
evp	follow	verb	11	C2	to do the same as someone else has just done	If other shops lower their prices, we will have to follow suit.	Bitten by a insurmountable curiosity she goes to India to find out about her and she even follows suit: she ends up in the Himalay[a]s driven by a strong desire to know more.
evp	follow	verb	12	B2	to discover more about a situation or take further action in connection with it	I follow up aerobic exercise with some weight lifting.	Last year I started to take a lot of black and white photos and I wanted to follow up the process so I bought an enlarger with all the equipment to go with it.
evp	follower	noun	1	C2	someone who supports or believes in a particular person or set of ideas	The newly elected governor appeared overcome with emotion as he thanked his followers.	Having been a devoted follower of the GDR's political system and having spent the collapse of this very system in a coma in hospital, once she wakes up, Christane has to be sheltered from the new developments.
evp	following	adjective	1	B1	the next day/morning, etc.	We met again the following afternoon.	I could give it back to you the following day.
evp	following	noun	1	B2	what comes next, often used to introduce a list, report, etc.	The following is an extract from her diary.	Regarding your questions, the following are my answers.
evp	food	noun	1	A1	something that people and animals eat, or plants absorb, to keep them alive	baby food	I'd like to eat Italian food, maybe lasagne.
evp	fool	noun	1	B1	a stupid person	I was a fool to trust him.	I wonder if I'm a fool because in spite of my economic problems I want to join the best tennis club in the town, but I love tennis.
evp	fool	noun	2	B2	to make someone look stupid intentionally	She was always trying to make a fool out of me in front of my friends.	He thought I had tried to make a fool of him but no, I was really desperate to get him as my boyfriend.
evp	fool	noun	3	B2	to behave in a silly or embarrassing way	I got very excited and made a fool of myself.	I had to leave that shop in full embarrassment and I also made a fool of myself.
evp	fool	verb	1	B2	to trick someone	Don't be fooled by his appearance.	I don't like to be fooled.
evp	foolish	adjective	1	B2	stupid and not wise	It would be foolish to pay more.	She looked foolish because of the mistakes she had made.
evp	foolishly	adverb	1	B2	in a foolish way, or because of being foolish	Foolishly, I didn't write the phone number down.	I was fourteen and foolishly in love with a blonde girl in my class to whom I had only spoken twice.
evp	foot	noun	1	A1	one of the two flat parts on the ends of your legs that you stand on	I've hurt my left foot.	Then, in just a few minutes, we are going to put our feet in the hot sand.
evp	foot	noun	2	A2	walking	Are you riding your bicycle or going on foot?	It isn't far away from the main building [-] it's about 15 minutes on foot.
evp	foot	noun	3	B1	a unit of measurement, equal to twelve inches or 0.3048 meters	The man was standing only a few feet away.	The room is about 150 square feet, rectangular in shape, with a window opposite the door and a pair of sliding doors to the balcony at one end.
evp	foot	noun	4	C1	the bottom of something such as stairs, a hill, a bed, or a page	Put the notes at the foot of the page.	Every year, expedition-groups from almost every country met at the foot of the highest mountain in the world to conquer it.
evp	foot	noun	5	C1	to go into a place or onto a piece of land	He told me never to set foot in his house again.	I dream of being the first one to set foot on a white sandy beach, to admire a new kind of vegetation: cranberry bushes, sweet potatoes, wild turkeys, a different climate; how scary and exciting at the same time!
evp	foot	noun	6	C2	to tell someone in a strong way that they must do something or must stop doing something	When she started borrowing my clothes without asking, I had to put my foot down.	Finally, I would like to appeal to other readers of the "Cyprus Weekly," who might even be living near my area, to put your foot down and apply any pressure you can on people who can do something about the situation.
evp	foot	noun	7	C2	to relax, especially by sitting with your feet supported above the ground	Put your feet up for half an hour before the kids get home.	You have done your work and now you can put your feet up.
evp	foot	noun	8	C2	to say something you should not say, especially something embarrassing	He makes outrageous comments and is always putting his foot in his mouth.	
evp	foot	noun	9	C2	to start a relationship or activity badly	He got off on the wrong foot with my parents by arriving late.	One of the greatest pleasures of reading "The Remains of the Day" would be to see the gradual development of the relationship between Stevens and Miss Kenton. From the beginning, they get off on the wrong foot.
evp	foot	noun	10	C2	to stand up after you have been sitting	The audience rose to their feet.	The capacity crowd rose to their feet to cheer Dylan and his band; since then I understood why his fans worship him like a god.
evp	foot	verb	1	C2	to pay for something that costs a lot of money	His parents can’t afford to foot the bill for his college education.	Only one problem arouse, which is who is going to foot the bill because such a factory is quite expensive.
evp	football	noun	1	A1	an oval ball made of leather or plastic and filled with air, used in playing football	They were tossing around a football.	I'll get a new football for you.
evp	football	noun	2	A2	a game in which two teams of players kick, throw, and run with an oval ball to cross a goal line and score points	a football player/team/helmet	Now I'm very happy, we play football, baseball but it's very difficult to speak all the time in English.
evp	football	noun	3	A2	the game of soccer	He played football in Spain.	I got two tickets for the football match.
evp	footstep	noun	1	C1	the sound of a foot hitting the ground when someone walks	I heard footsteps behind me and quickly turned around.	We are lucky that it is summer now with warm and sunny weather. In Stockholm people are walking - the streets are thi]c with people and you can even hear their footsteps!
evp	footstep	noun	2	C2	to do the same things in your life as someone else did, especially a member of your family	He followed in his father's footsteps and became an actor.	Her step-granddaughter gets fascinated with Olivia's story and this fascination draws her to India to follow in her footsteps.
evp	forbid	verb	1	B2	to order someone not to do something, or to say that something must not happen	I forbid you to see that boy again!	They forbid people talking in the same room where they watch TV.
evp	forbidden	adjective	1	B1	not allowed, especially by law	Smoking is forbidden in the theater.	She explained to me how this school works, what is allowed and what is forbidden.
evp	force	noun	1	B2	physical strength or power	The force of the wind had brought down a great many trees in the area.	I understood that someone had entered my house by force and had stolen my television.
evp	force	noun	2	B2	a group of people organized to work together for a particular purpose, for example in military service	the security forces	Donald Wood was risking his life and that of his family in the process of reporting the vile crimes of the SA. police force.
evp	force	noun	3	C2	power and influence, or a person or thing that has it	the forces of good/evil	Each boy is a battleground where the forces of confusion wage war on the forces of good.
evp	force	noun	4	C2	a very powerful person or organization	His Dad is a force to be reckoned with.	No longer a remote, backward, unimportant country, it became a force to be reckoned with in Europe.
evp	force	noun	5	C2	When two people or groups join forces, they act or work together.	She joined forces with her sister-in-law to set up a restaurant.	The second proposal is that we join forces with Green Peace in picketing the refinery, this of course is up to the individual members.
evp	force	noun	6	C2	If a law, rule, etc. is in force, it exists and is being used.	New regulations limiting fishing on this river are now in force.	Because the measures are only in Patra they are not very powerful because it isn't an official law so that it is always in force.
evp	force	noun	7	C2	all of the people available to work or actually employed in a particular area, industry, or company	In this city, over 15 percent of the labor force are in jobs that require a bachelor's degree.	Young couples usually don't want to have more then one or two children and the labor force is declining.
evp	force	verb	1	B2	to make someone do something that they do not want to do	You can't force her to make a decision.	By participating in such games you force yourself to do your best.
evp	force	verb	2	C2	to use physical strength or effort to make something move or open	Move your leg up gently when you're doing this exercise, but don't force it.	They forced the door, entered the house and found Mary under the effect of drugs and her boyfriend on the floor dead.
evp	forceful	adjective	1	C2	expressing opinions strongly and demanding attention or action	a forceful manner/personality	But she was a forceful woman who knew how to deal with her problems.
evp	forecast	noun	1	B1	a report saying what the weather is likely to be like	The weather forecast said it was going to rain later today.	The weather forecast is not so good for the next two days: rain and wind.
evp	forehead	noun	1	B1	the flat part of the face, above the eyes and below the hair	She's got a high forehead.	Suddenly, the girl found herself in front of the man, holding a gun against her forehead.
evp	foreign	adjective	1	A2	belonging or connected to a country that is not your own	Spain was the first foreign country she had visited.	You know I have got a friend in Germany, but I want to meet more foreign people.
evp	foreign	adjective	2	B2	relating to or dealing with countries that are not your own	foreign policy	She is also extraordinary in that she graduated from Harvard University and Tokyo University and used to work for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs as a senior civil servant.
evp	foreign	adjective	3	C2	to be something you know nothing about or do not understand	The concept of loyalty is completely foreign to him.	But, vulgarity was foreign to his nature and he seemed to be merely a shy man.
evp	foreigner	noun	1	B1	a person who comes from another country	I was so obviously a foreigner.	I started my new English class last week, because I really want to master English for my dream, to teach Japanese for foreigners.
evp	foresee	verb	1	C1	to expect a future situation or event	I don't foresee any problems in the future.	Our duty is to foresee any complication before it appears.
evp	forest	noun	1	A2	a large area of trees growing closely together	the Black Forest	I would like to go for a walk in the forest.
evp	forever	adverb	1	B1	for all time in the future	I'll love you forever.	I'll keep it forever in my memory!
evp	forever	adverb	2	B2	for an extremely long time or too much time	We'd better walk a bit quicker - it's going to take forever if we go this slowly.	It would take forever.
evp	forgery	noun	1	C2	an illegal copy of a document, painting, etc.	The passport was clearly a forgery.	
evp	forgery	noun	2	C2	the crime of making an illegal copy of something	The doctor was convicted on two charges of forgery.	Frank remembered his dark past, when he committed forgery.
evp	forgive	verb	1	B1	to decide not to be angry with someone for something they have done, or not to punish them for something they have done	She never forgave her mother for lying to her.	I will never forgive him.
evp	forgive	verb	2	B2	used before you ask or say something that might seem rude	Forgive me for asking, but how much did you pay for your bag?	Forgive me if I have made it seem so funny, but I'm telling you you should have seen his face.
evp	forgiveness	noun	1	C2	when you forgive someone for something they have done	They begged her for forgiveness.	She gave me a panicked look of abashment and begged for my forgiveness.
evp	fork	noun	1	A2	a small object with three or four points and a handle, that you use to pick up food and eat with	a knife and fork.	I like a clean fork and knife.
evp	form	noun	1	A2	a document with spaces for you to write information	an application form	My job application form is in that file.
evp	form	noun	2	B1	a way of writing or saying a word that shows if it is singular or plural, past or present, etc.	The continuous form of "stand" is "standing."	
evp	form	noun	3	B2	a type of something	Swimming is the best form of exercise.	Bicycle fans say that cycling is a very good form of exercise.
evp	form	noun	4	C1	the particular way in which something appears or exists	The novel is written in the form of a series of letters.	For all this, I can only say that I want my money back immediately, or some compensation in the form of a real trip to a real country.
evp	form	noun	5	C2	feeling or performing well	He was in great form and won the golf tournament by 7 strokes.	In this period of time the sportsman or -women has to constantly concentrate on being in top form, as well as dealing with the heavy amount of publicity that comes with being a "superstar."
evp	form	verb	1	B1	to make something by combining different parts	In English, you form the present participle by adding -ing to the verb.	
evp	form	verb	2	B2	to begin to exist or to make something begin to exist	We are learning more about how stars are formed.	You are only attached to material values and your life-style is formed by earning money.
evp	form	verb	3	B2	to start an organization or business	She formed her own company eleven years ago.	Many organizations were formed to protect the now endangered species, and people began to ask themselves: are zoos necessary?
evp	form	verb	4	C2	to take or to make something take a particular shape	Hold hands and form a circle.	The girl's mother had baked the biggest cake the little girl had ever seen and covered it with a lot of cream, and 10 lighted candles formed a heart in the middle.
evp	form	verb	5	C2	to begin to have a particular opinion or idea about something because of the information you have	I formed the opinion that I was not really welcome there any more.	Young people are at the mercy of several ideological spectrums that dominate them and prevent them from forming an objective opinion.
evp	form	verb	6	C2	to be the thing talked about or be part of it	The Alps form a natural barrier between Italy and Switzerland.	Someone tried to drink the water that had formed a puddle o] the ground but ended up with a mouthful of moist yellow-tinted mud.
evp	formal	adjective	1	B2	describes language, clothes and behavior that are traditional and correct	a formal dinner party	You don't need to wear formal clothes.
evp	formal	adjective	2	C1	Formal education, training, etc., is learning in an established course in a school.	His formal education ended at the sixth grade, yet he became a millionaire at the age of thirty.	I never had any formal training in computers but I know how to operate the system, to make files and to use the Internet.
evp	formal	adjective	3	C1	public or official	a formal announcement/request	For that reason, I have to ask you for a formal apology in print, where you could give the correct version of events and also change the bad image you gave to the readers of the people of my organization.
evp	formally	adverb	1	C1	officially	The deal will be formally announced on Tuesday.	First of all I'll tell you a little about the ceremony. It's usually held in a church, (in our case, a Catholic one as we are Catholics); the priest reads some parts of the Bible to the bridegroom (that's usually chosen before with the couple); then they exchange rings and they'll be formally married.
evp	formally	adverb	2	C1	in a polite way	They shook hands formally.	On New Year's Day all members in a family got together (members who lived separately came home), greeted each other more formally than usual, and ate the special food.
evp	format	noun	1	C1	the way something is designed, arranged, or produced	This year's event will have a new format.	There is one particular format which has been consistently on air almost without any adjustments: the soap opera.
evp	formation	noun	1	C2	the development of something into a particular thing or shape	the formation of a crystal	Due to the heat from the sun, the sea water evaporates and this leads to the formation of clouds as the water condenses as it gets higher.
evp	formation	noun	2	C2	when something has a particular shape or things are arranged in a particular way	rock/cloud formations	The cave had the most incredible ice formation I had ever seen.
evp	former	adjective	1	B1	happening, existing or true in the past but not now	his former wife	And in my town there is also a new Italian restaurant. It's owned by my mother's former colleague.
evp	formerly	adverb	1	B2	in the past	The European Union was formerly called the European Community.	He was a hero in Japan, formerly known as the ungifted pupil from Switzerland.
evp	formidable	adjective	1	C2	strong, powerful, and a bit frightening	a formidable woman	I suppose that this optimism supports her formidable pioneer-spirit and energy.
evp	formidable	adjective	2	C2	difficult and needing a lot of effort or thought	a formidable task	You could feel like a fish out of water whenever you are with your colleagues or find yourself out of place and being depressed when faced with formidable tasks which are not appealing to you at all.
evp	formula	noun	1	C1	a plan or method that is used to achieve something	There's no magic formula for success.	Every member of his company works as a group, rather than an individual, which is the main formula for his company's success.
evp	formula	noun	2	C1	a set of letters, numbers, or symbols that express a data set, a mathematical fact, or a chemical composition	a mathematical formula	I would be interested in learning how to do a quick search in Excel, setting up equations and establishing formula parameters for statistics operations.
evp	formulate	verb	1	C2	to develop all the details of a plan for doing something	They formulated a plan to save the company.	Having discussed this matter, we formulated three basic suggestions and we e]valuate the advantages of each of them.
evp	formulate	verb	2	C2	to say what you think or feel after thinking carefully	to formulate an answer/reply	Montag is now thinking by himself and realizes that he is able to formulate his own opinion.
evp	forthcoming	adjective	1	B2	happening soon	We have just received the information about the forthcoming conference.	I am writing this letter so as to give you the information which will help you organize all the necessary details of the forthcoming holiday.
evp	forthcoming	adjective	2	C1	If money or help is forthcoming, it is offered or given.	He insisted that no more money would be forthcoming.	I trust you will agree that at the very least I deserve a letter of explanation from you and a substantial refund of my money. Unless this is forthcoming, I will have to take matters a step further.
evp	fortunate	adjective	1	B2	lucky	You're very fortunate to have found such a lovely house.	I was fortunate in that I had the chance to be with children on a daily basis and learn to communicate with them.
evp	fortunately	adverb	1	B1	happening because of good luck	Fortunately, we got home before it started to rain.	At the moment, fortunately, the weather is fine and sunny.
evp	fortune	noun	1	B2	a lot of money	She made a fortune selling her story to the newspapers.	It really made it easier for me and it would have cost me a fortune to stay in a hotel.
evp	fortune	noun	2	B2	the good or bad things that happen to you	The family's fortunes changed almost overnight.	Everyone was rejoicing over her good fortune and she even thought that the gods up above were happy for her.
evp	forty	noun	1	A2	the number 40	thirty, forty, fifty	There were about forty people.
evp	forty	noun	2	B2	to be aged between 40 and 49	By the time I'm in my forties, I want to be running my own business.	The man was in his early forties and he looked to be a very important man.
evp	forty	noun	3	B2	the years 1940 through 1949	Most of these people were born in the forties.	So, I would like you to consider buying some English comedies, like those Ealing Studios made in the late forties and the fifties.
evp	forward	adverb	1	B1	toward the direction in front of you	She leaned forward to whisper something in my ear.	I had to try once again to take a step forward, gently I took a step forward.
evp	forward	adverb	2	B2	toward the future	I always look forward, not back.	I want you to look a bit forward, try to imagine how you will feel in one or two year[s'] time]
evp	forward	adverb	3	C1	used to say that something is making progress	The project moved forward slowly.	For us, this would be a big step forward and a perfect motivation for the accountants.
evp	foul	adjective	1	C1	very dirty, or with an unpleasant smell	the foul odor of rotting fish	Each day early in the morning, a group of twenty persons picked up the rubbish and when we went out to go to work, the streets were as clean as if there was no strike. Anyway we had to do that if we wanted to "survive" in this foul atmosphere.
evp	foul	adjective	2	C1	very rude and offensive words	There was a lot of foul language in the movie.	It is the responsibility of the parents not to fight or use any foul language in front of the kids, as they may learn and use it in front of others.
evp	foul	adjective	3	C2	very bad or unpleasant	foul weather	It reappeared only in moments of distraction and served exclusively to increase her foul mood.
evp	foul	noun	1	C2	In some sports, a foul is something that someone does that is not allowed by the rules.	The referee called it an intentional foul.	If that happens, the referee has the right to interrupt the game by blowing his whistle and saying that that team has committed a foul.
evp	found	verb	1	B2	to bring something into existence	York was founded by the Romans in the year 71 AD.	Red Stone was founded ten years ago.
evp	found	verb	2	C2	to base something on a set of ideas or beliefs	a society founded on principles of equality	While Piggy is holding the conch, the symbol of a human community, founded on discussion, agreement and rules, and speaking up to Jack, Roger sets the rock in motion which destroys Piggy and his conch.
evp	foundation	noun	1	C1	when an organization, state, or country is established	the foundation of a new state	Moreover the foundation of schools and stadiums will benefit young people.
evp	foundation	noun	2	C1	an organization that gives money for a particular purpose	the Mental Health Foundation	His Foundation has helped millions of HIV sufferers in every corner of the world since it was founded in 1992; it helps to raise funds for orphanages all over the world, it creates programs to educate people about prevention and how to look after those infected.
evp	foundation	noun	3	C2	the idea or principle that something is based on	Jefferson's document formed the foundation of a new nation.	Love, understanding and respect will be the foundation of the upbringing of my children.
evp	foundation	noun	4	C2	If something is without foundation, there is no proof that it is true.	The allegations are completely without foundation.	
evp	founder	noun	1	C2	someone who establishes an organization, movement, etc.	She was one of the founders of the women's movement.	He was the founder of the Jersey Wildlife Preservation Trust forty years ago, due to his great concern for the preservation of wildlife species.
evp	fountain	noun	1	B1	a structure that forces water up into the air as a decoration	There is a beautiful fountain in the middle of the square.	The place I enjoyed the most was the park, because it had a nice atmosphere with all those happy kids, and the most terrific fountain I've ever seen.
evp	four	noun	1	A1	the number 4	Most animals have four legs.	He works four days and has four days off.
evp	fourteen	noun	1	A1	the number 14	twelve, thirteen, fourteen, fifteen	Several days ago I had my birthday and I am now fourteen.
evp	fox	noun	1	B2	a wild animal like a dog with red-brown fur, a pointed nose, and a long, thick tail	A fox killed the chickens during the night.	One day, the fox attacked his animals and he shouted as much as he could.
evp	fraction	noun	1	C2	a very small number or amount	a fraction of a second	Both of them hit the wall almost at the same time but, against Hall's prediction, Popou was better by a fraction of a second.
evp	fragile	adjective	1	C2	easily broken, damaged, or destroyed	a fragile china cup	The majority of these countries still have a very fragile economy.
evp	fragile	adjective	2	C2	physically or emotionally weak	a fragile little girl	She seemed to be so fragile with an everlasting smile on her face.
evp	fragrance	noun	1	C2	a pleasant smell	the delicate fragrance of roses	We were inundated with the fresh air, an untold fragrance mixed with the warm breeze and the unique-styled buildings.
evp	fragrant	adjective	1	C2	with a pleasant smell	fragrant flowers	From his terrace you can see the marvelous sea of Dublin Bay and appreciate the fragrant odor of the beautiful flowers that embellish the place.
evp	frail	adjective	1	C2	not strong or healthy	a frail old lady	Looking at her, she was frail and looked confused.
evp	frame	noun	1	B1	a border that surrounds and supports a picture, door or window	a picture/window frame	I'm going to buy picture frames to put the pictures in and I'll put them on the wall, around my table.
evp	frame	noun	2	B2	the basic structure of a building, vehicle or piece of furniture that other parts are added onto	a bicycle frame	In my bedroom is a big bed with a wood frame and a comfortable mattress.
evp	frame	noun	3	C2	the way someone feels at a particular time	She was in a much more positive frame of mind today.	Naturally, these are more difficult factors to cope with for older people, but it just happens to anyone if you're not in the right frame of mind.
evp	framework	noun	1	C2	a system of rules, ideas, or beliefs that is used to plan or decide something	a legal framework for resolving disputes	They were all trying to do their best in the rigid framework of the existing system (one of them even succeeded in making the difference).
evp	frankly	adverb	1	B2	used when giving an honest and direct opinion, often one that might upset someone	Quite frankly, I think this whole situation is ridiculous.	I'm asking this because quite frankly, it's the part of the festival that my friend and I enjoyed the most.
evp	frantic	adjective	1	C2	done in a fast and excited way and not calm or organized	a frantic search	Fred started to shiver as frantic images of the past flashed through his mind.
evp	frantic	adjective	2	C2	very worried or frightened	frantic calls for help	Donna's mother had heard her frantic shouts, and now said soothingly: "Have you forgotten Elaine has spent the night at her friend's house?"
evp	fraud	noun	1	C2	when someone does something illegal in order to get money	credit card fraud	Michael was completely speechless when he realized that Claire had all the proof of the fraud he had committed]
evp	fraud	noun	2	C2	someone or something that deceives people by pretending to be someone or something that they are not	She claimed to be a journalist, but she was just a fraud.	My marriage was a fraud, a case of bigamy.
evp	fraudulent	adjective	1	C2	dishonest and illegal	fraudulent insurance claims	This vice increases more and more as fanatics spend more money for sports-related topics, and so, most valuable players become more expensive and then they begin to be involved in cheating and fraudulent activities.
evp	free	adjective	1	A2	not busy doing anything	Are you free this evening?	I am free this afternoon.
evp	free	adjective	2	A2	not costing any money	I got some free movie tickets.	You don't have to bring any money because it is free.
evp	free	adjective	3	B2	not limited or controlled	a free society	The plan was this: they would call the police, which would trap the man so the child would be free to return to his mother.
evp	free	adjective	4	B2	not in prison	He will soon be a free man again.	I will regret it for the rest of my life, because I wanted to be a free man...
evp	free	adjective	5	B2	to allow someone to leave prison or to allow a person or animal to escape	He opened the cage and set the birds free.	To sum up, animals should be set free and live as they should live in nature.
evp	free	adjective	6	B2	not being used by anyone	Is this seat free?	The hall was full of people and no seat was free.
evp	free	adjective	7	C1	not containing or having anything harmful or unpleasant	a life free from pain	We can start to grow new plants so that our environment looks fresh and enchanting and free from pesticides and sicknesses as well.
evp	free	adjective	8	C2	to escape from someone or something that is controlling you	She tried to break free from the social conditioning of her upbringing.	I would like to revisit there one day as it's firmly connected to my adolescence, when I struggled to break free from my peers, and tried to establish my own identity.
evp	free	adjective	9	C2	to suddenly escape or become separate from something or someone	The dog broke free and ran into traffic.	
evp	free	adjective	10	C2	permission to make your own decisions about how you want to do something	The students were given a free hand as far as designing their projects was concerned.	But unlike my parents, I wouldn't give my children a free hand in solving their problems.
evp	free	adverb	1	A2	without cost or payment	Children under five travel free.	I get tickets for free.
evp	free	adverb	2	B2	in a way that is not tied, limited, or controlled	The horse broke free and ran away.	If animals were born free, why do they have to live in a prison?
evp	free	verb	1	B2	to allow someone to leave a prison or place where they have been kept	After a ten-hour siege the gunman agreed to free the hostages.	We were taken hostage by a bank robber but the police came and freed us.
evp	freedom	noun	1	B2	the condition or right of being able or allowed to do, say, think, etc. whatever you want to, without being controlled or limited	Children are allowed much more freedom these days.	[The car gives some freedom of choice: I can move quickly from one place to another, I don't waste time on public transport and in winter it protects me from the cold and rain.
evp	freedom	noun	2	C2	a situation in which you are not suffering because of something unpleasant or harmful	freedom from fear/poverty	Despite our modern medicine and the progress it has made within the last century, there is no guarantee of freedom from disease or freedom from illness.
evp	freely	adverb	1	B2	without being controlled or limited	For the first time in months she could move freely.	We have always been able to speak freely with each other and this letter is no exception.
evp	freeze	verb	1	B1	If something freezes or is frozen, it becomes hard and solid because it is very cold.	Water freezes at a temperature of 0°C.	Sometimes the roads ar] frozen and the cars cannot pass.
evp	freeze	verb	2	B1	to make food last a long time by making it very cold and hard	I'll freeze any food that's left over.	
evp	freeze	verb	3	B2	to feel very cold	Without a sleeping bag, you would freeze to death out there on the mountainside.	The weather is warm in the summer but when the winter comes... get ready to freeze!
evp	freeze	verb	4	B2	to suddenly stop moving, especially because you are frightened	She saw someone outside the window and froze.	I froze with terror.
evp	freezer	noun	1	B1	a large container operated by electricity in which food can be frozen and stored	There's some ice cream in the freezer.	It is about that beautiful vase you had on the freezer in the kitchen.
evp	freezing	adjective	1	B1	extremely cold	It's absolutely freezing in here - can I close the window?	At the moment, I am here in England and it is absolutely freezing.
evp	frenzy	noun	1	C2	when you are so excited, nervous, or anxious that you cannot control what you are doing	She hit him in a frenzy of rage.	For the next thirty-two hours, a frenzy took hold of the house.
evp	frequent	adjective	1	B1	happening often	a frequent visitor to the US	As you must know I am a frequent traveler because of my job and I have many stories regarding my trips.
evp	frequently	adverb	1	B1	often	frequently asked questions	I met a beautiful girl and now we are seeing each other frequently, about twice a week.
evp	fresh	adjective	1	A2	Fresh food has been produced or collected recently and has not been frozen, dried, etc.	fresh fruit/vegetables/fish/bread	Sometimes they go to the sea to get really fresh fish.
evp	fresh	adjective	2	B1	new or different from what was there before	We're looking for fresh ideas.	In fact, it was the chance of a new life, the opportunity to make a fresh start.
evp	fresh	adjective	3	B1	smelling clean or feeling pleasantly cool	a fresh smell/breeze	The water was wonderfully fresh.
evp	fresh	adjective	4	B1	air outside buildings or away from the city that is clean and cool	Let's go outside and get some fresh air.	I think it would be better to go to the south east to the countryside and have a nice relaxing time with lots of fresh air.
evp	fresh	adjective	5	B2	recently made, done, arrived, etc., and especially not yet changed by time	There was a fresh fall of snow during the night.	I don't know if it is the most embarrassing moment of my life, but it is still fresh in my memory and I get embarrassed every time I think of it.
evp	fresh	adjective	6	C1	having a lot of energy and not feeling tired	We got up the next day feeling fresh and relaxed.	Before the test, you should have your breakfast with a cup of coffee to make yourself feel fresh.
evp	fresh	adjective	7	C2	Fresh skin looks healthy.	a fresh complexion	Her eyes were blue and she had a beautiful fresh complexion.
evp	fresh	adjective	8	C2	water from lakes, rivers, etc. that has no salt in it	These fish live in fresh water.	You find stunning white beaches, clear, fresh water lakes, isolated tropic islands, reef, rainforests, buzzing cities, challenging mountain range, bush, outback - and the desert.
evp	fresh	adjective	9	C2	someone or something that is new, different, and exciting	Having Eve around has been a breath of fresh air.	Should this be everything the Town Council has promised, it will bring a breath of fresh air for our local youth.
evp	friction	noun	1	C1	disagreement or dislike caused by people having different opinions	There’s less friction in relationships when you use teamwork.	Money spent on shopping can also be the cause of friction or arguments between husbands and wives.
evp	Friday	noun	1	A1	the day of the week after Thursday and before Saturday	Do you want to go to the theater on Friday?	The class is on Friday, from 2 to 4 p.m.
evp	fridge	noun	1	B1	a refrigerator	Don't forget to put the milk back in the fridge.	I decided that next month I'll buy a small fridge, so at midnight I can drink a water or a coke.
evp	fried	adjective	1	A2	cooked in hot oil or fat	a fried egg	I normally order fried fish.
evp	friend	noun	1	A1	someone who you know well and like	She's my best/closest friend - we've known each other since we were five.	[On the weekend she is free so she goes out with friends.
evp	friend	noun	2	A2	a person you write to on an Internet site	I've just added Adam as a friend on Facebook.	
evp	friend	noun	3	B1	someone who you have known and liked for a long time	Roger and I are old friends.	My old friends from Moscow paid me a visit in London.
evp	friend	noun	4	B1	to know and like someone	I've been friends with Jo for years.	He was really happy too, so we began to be friends.
evp	friend	noun	5	B1	to begin to know and like someone	He finds it difficult to make friends.	Although I didn't know anyone in this club, I immediately made friends with Maria and Rosaria.
evp	friendliness	noun	1	B2	the quality of being friendly	It was the friendliness of the people that struck me.	Your description of the people, their everyday life, their characters and their friendliness reflects that you really had an excellent time here.
evp	friendly	adjective	1	A2	behaving in a pleasant, kind way toward someone	They were friendly people.	It was nice, because they played good music and the people were friendly.
evp	friendship	noun	1	B1	when two people are friends	a close friendship	I hope our friendship will become stronger and maybe he should become my boyfriend!
evp	fright	noun	1	C1	a sudden feeling of shock and fear	That dog gave me a terrible fright.	She suddenly realized she was being followed, so, speechless with fright, began to stride along back to her car.
evp	frighten	verb	1	B2	to make someone feel fear	He frightens me when he drives so fast.	I have no interest in lizards. Whatever their characters are, their appearance always frightens me.
evp	frightened	adjective	1	B1	feeling fear or worry	Are you frightened of spiders?	We were both frightened and didn't know what to do.
evp	frightening	adjective	1	B1	making you feel fear	a frightening thought	I like frightening films, so I'm going to buy it.
evp	fringe	noun	1	C2	hair that is cut short and straight at the top of someone's face	Her fringe was nearly in her eyes.	She had a long fringe over her forehead that almost covered her pale blue eyes.
evp	fringe	noun	2	C2	the outside edge of an area, group, or subject and not the main part	the southern fringe of the city	He is on the fringe of society.
evp	fringe	adjective	1	C2	not belonging to the main part of a group, activity, or subject	fringe politics/theatre	Unfortunately it seems to have won "new" currency in view of the latest events directed against foreigners, minorities and fringe groups.
evp	frog	noun	1	B1	a small, green animal with long back legs for jumping that lives in or near water	The frogs down at the lake were making a lot of noise.	They made a plan, and in the afternoon, they went to the little lake near their town, and they caught a little frog.
evp	frontier	noun	1	C2	a line or border between two countries	They placed guards on the frontier.	He took it and escaped towards the German frontier.
evp	frontier	noun	2	C2	the limits of what is known or what has been done before in an area of knowledge or activity	the frontiers of science and technology	Introduction: throughout history, scientists, artists and other people tried hard to push back the frontiers of knowledge, in order to succeed in making or creating something that all humankind will benefit from somehow.
evp	frost	noun	1	B2	a thin, white layer of ice that forms on surfaces at night when it is very cold, or a time when the temperature is very cold and water freezes	When I woke up this morning the ground was covered with frost.	Thirdly, you do not have to worry about rain, wind, frost or other bad weather conditions.
evp	frown	verb	1	C2	to show on your face that you are annoyed or worried by moving your eyebrows together	She frowned when I mentioned his name.	She looked at him and frowned, strange, but he smiled back.
evp	frown	verb	2	C2	to think that something is wrong and that you should not do it	You can wear jeans, but I think the restaurant frowns on shorts and sneakers.	Talking being very often frowned upon in the Zen gardens, consequently it is peaceful and so you can fully relax and completely empty your head.
evp	frown	noun	1	C2	the expression on your face when you frown	He looked at me with a puzzled frown.	If you are truly devoted to your health, logic thus dictates that you will be sitting at the dinner table with an empty plate - and certainly a frown on your face.
evp	frozen	adjective	1	B1	Frozen food has been made so that it will last a long time by freezing.	We don't have any fresh vegetables, only frozen peas.	Nowadays, we do not need anymore to spend hours cooking, we just put some frozen food in the microwave, and in a few minutes our meal is ready.
evp	frozen	adjective	2	B1	turned into ice	They skated over the frozen lake.	
evp	frozen	adjective	3	B1	If a person, or a part of their body is frozen, they are very cold.	Is there any heating in here? I'm frozen!	I was frozen, but after a second I had a big silly smile on my face.
evp	fruit	noun	1	A1	something such as an apple or orange that grows on a tree or a bush, contains seeds, and can be eaten as food	fresh fruit	After those, maybe some fresh fruit salad with fruit juice.
evp	fruit	noun	2	C2	If something that someone does bears fruit, it produces successful results.	Our decision is just beginning to bear fruit.	Being friendly at work may not necessarily be easy, but it always bears fruit.
evp	fruit	noun	3	C2	the good result of someone's work or actions	The fruits of economic growth are starting to make a difference in the lives of many workers.	After weeks and months of rehearsals, at last I was able to see the fruits of their work, as well as mine.
evp	fruitful	adjective	1	C1	producing good or useful results	We had a very fruitful discussion.	We had a fruitful talk about his previous achievements in his first job, after which he found out how creative he was.
evp	frustrated	adjective	1	C1	annoyed because things are not happening in the way that you want, or in the way that they should	I'm very frustrated at/with my lack of progress.	What, however, made us very frustrated was that there was no opportunity for us to take an exam at the end of this month.
evp	frustrating	adjective	1	C1	making you feel annoyed or discouraged	a frustrating situation	When you are working and you are in a hurry to get to your work place on time, waiting for the bus becomes quite annoying and frustrating.
evp	frustration	noun	1	B2	the feeling of being annoyed because things are not happening in the way that you want, or in the way that they should	I could sense his frustration at not being able to help.	So we had to leave hungry and with a certain feeling of frustration and disappointment.
evp	fry	verb	1	B1	to cook food in hot oil or fat, or to be cooked in hot oil or fat	Fry the mushrooms in a little butter.	I was frying some chicken as my wife was trying to listen to the radio news.
evp	frying pan	noun	1	B1	a flat, metal pan with a long handle that is used for frying food	Chop the mushrooms and put them in the frying pan.	
evp	fuel	noun	1	B1	a substance that is burned to provide heat or power	Wood, coal, oil and gas are all different kinds of fuel.	And third, if a rising number of people use a bike instead of their car, traffic density will decrease which is, again, good for the environment because there will be fewer traffic jams and therefore less fuel consumption and less pollution.
evp	fulfilling	adjective	1	C2	If something is fulfilling, it satisfies you and makes you happy.	a fulfilling job	But the choice of a fulfilling job is an important factor because most people spend 8 or 9 hours working every day and doing something that you don't like for long can be a problem.
evp	fulfillment	noun	1	C2	a feeling of happiness because you are receiving or achieving what you want in life	Workaholics find fulfillment in their work.	Having a satisfactory job, the need to seek fulfillment from material things will subside.
evp	fulfillment	noun	2	C2	the act of doing something necessary or something that you have promised or wanted to do	Being here is the fulfillment of a lifelong ambition.	In general a success is perceived as fulfillment of someone's positive role in the society.
evp	full	adjective	1	A2	If a container or a space is full, it contains as many things or people as possible, or as much of something as possible.	We couldn't get in - the theater was full.	I['m] selling it, because I haven't enough free time to ride it and my garage is full!
evp	full	adjective	2	A2	complete and including every part	Please give your full name and address.	I have Diwali holiday which means I will have a full day free.
evp	full	adjective	3	A2	containing a lot of things or people or a lot of something	This sweater is full of holes.	You could go to Venice because it is a special place full of art.
evp	full	adjective	4	B1	the greatest possible	James is very bright, but he doesn't make full use of his abilities.	You could notice he was mad about all the noise we made] So we left at full speed!!!
evp	full	adjective	5	B1	completely and with nothing missing	The bill must be paid in full by the end of the month.	Unfortunately, I wasn't able to read the e-mail in full, but as I understood it] he wanted to apologize for what had happened between us many years ago.
evp	full	adjective	6	B2	having eaten enough food	No more cake for me, thanks, I'm full.	After having a big lunch, he was full up.
evp	full	adjective	7	C2	to think that you are very important in a way that annoys other people	I doubt he even thought about what you might need, he’s so full of himself.	There is a thing which I consider very important for the upbringing of my own children - to "teach" them to be coherent and to think of the "others" because if you are full of yourself, you are blind and you can't see what is happening around you.
evp	full	adjective	8	C2	to be very busy	Shelley has her hands full with three kids under 5.	This very fact made my father work like a slave, as he was the only breadwinner at home, my mother having her hands full with us four.
evp	full-time	adjective	1	B1	happening or working for the whole of the working week and not only part of it	a full-time job	So I decided to take a full-time course.
evp	fully	adverb	1	B1	completely	The hotel was fully booked.	
evp	fumes	noun	1	C1	strong, unpleasant, and often dangerous gas or smoke	car exhaust fumes	Cars emit fumes that are very dangerous.
evp	fun	noun	1	A1	enjoyment or pleasure, or something that gives you enjoyment or pleasure	Have fun!	I hope we have a great meal and a lot of fun.
evp	fun	noun	2	B1	for pleasure and not for any other reason.	I ran but just for fun.	Fortunately I discovered that the e-mail] wasn't for me. I didn't appreciate that there were people that were sending things like that just for fun.
evp	fun	noun	3	B2	to make a joke about someone or something in an unkind way	The other children at school used to make fun of his hair.	I didn't want to tell other people because I didn't want them to make fun of me.
evp	fun	adjective	1	A2	enjoyable or entertaining	There are lots of fun things to do here.	I can remember my birthday party and all the fun things we did.
evp	function	noun	1	B2	the purpose of something or the particular responsibility of someone	Each button has a different function.	Apart from that, zoos have got an educational function.
evp	function	noun	2	C1	a large, formal party or ceremony	a charity function	Almost 600 people gathered at my main wedding function.
evp	function	verb	1	C1	to work or operate	She quickly learned how the office functions.	It is important to have continuous retail sales for any economy to function.
evp	function	verb	2	C2	to use for a particular purpose or in a particular way	Our spare bedroom also functions as a study.	In my point of view, the old building can function as a cafeteria for young people due to the fact that its location is in close proximity to the city center and people have the opportunity to pay a visit to the café and communicate with other people.
evp	functional	adjective	1	B2	designed to be practical and useful	functional clothing	Like many other people, I used to see my camera as a very functional object without being really fond of it.
evp	fund	noun	1	C1	an amount of money collected, saved, or provided for a purpose	a pension fund	A fund in her name has been made for handicapped children and the amount in this fund is growing fast.
evp	fund	noun	2	C1	money needed or available to spend on something	The charity closed down due to lack of funds.	Due to the limited funds available to the committee responsible for the festivities, the location was not in accordance with the expectations.
evp	fund	verb	1	C1	to provide the money to pay for an event, activity or organization	The company has agreed to fund my trip to Australia.	This way would be a faster and more fair way to fund the changes that are to be made.
evp	fundamental	adjective	1	C2	relating to the most important or main part of something	a fundamental change/difference	However I liked it a lot because music is fundamental to me.
evp	fundamentally	adverb	1	C2	in a basic and important way	Nothing has fundamentally changed.	Japanese gardens are fundamentally different from those designed in Europe.
evp	funding	noun	1	C1	money available for a particular purpose	The company received state funding for the project.	The Club doesn't need auxiliary funding, because it uses the money from membership fees.
evp	funeral	noun	1	B2	a ceremony for burying or burning the body of a dead person	The funeral will be held next Friday.	She was crying at his funeral.
evp	funny	adjective	1	A1	making you smile or laugh	Do you know any funny stories/jokes?	We danced, drank coca-cola, and watched a very funny film.
evp	funny	adjective	2	B1	strange, surprising, unexpected or difficult to explain or understand	He's got some funny ideas about how to bring up children.	We often see people talking about fitness and health, but the funny thing for me is that everybody really looks worried about it although they don't do anything to make it better.
evp	fur	noun	1	B1	the thick hair that covers the bodies of some animals, like cats or rabbits	She stroked the rabbit's soft fur.	I find the killing of animals for fur an awful, disgusting thing.
evp	furious	adjective	1	B2	extremely angry	I was late and he was furious with me.	He was absolutely furious, having learned about our engagement.
evp	furiously	adverb	1	B2	in a very angry way	"Get out of here!" she shouted furiously.	"Put that light out", I shouted furiously after those sleepless nights.
evp	furnished	adjective	1	C1	If a room or building is furnished, there is furniture in it.	He's renting a fully furnished apartment by the river.	I am looking for a two bedroom, fully furnished apartment.
evp	furniture	noun	1	A2	objects such as chairs, tables, and beds that you put into a room or building	They have a lot of antique furniture.	I hurt myself one week ago so I can't help you but pupils can install chairs and the other furniture.
evp	further	adjective	1	A2	more or extra	For further details about the offer, call this number.	For further information, contact Joey Hung.
evp	further	adjective	2	C1	additional	A further 20 stores will open next year.	As a matter of fact, only 5% of the total income was taken to pay for administration costs, and a further 10% to pay for the cost of entertainment.
evp	further	adverb	1	B1	(comparative of far) at or to a place or time that is a longer distance away	Let's walk a bit further down the road.	When we left your place we drove on the motorway to Trier and further on to Luxembourg.
evp	further	adverb	2	B2	more	He refused to discuss the matter further.	I demand a full refund or I will be forced to take this matter further.
evp	further	verb	1	C2	to make something develop or become more successful	He'll do anything to further his career.	This could be because some Education graduates were already in the education field and pursuing a graduate course was a means of furthering their career or knowledge.
evp	furthermore	adverb	1	B2	in addition to what has just been said	Furthermore, we have a duty to defend our country.	I am 22 years of age and I have a degree in tourism. Furthermore, I have a working knowledge of English, Spanish, Catalan and Italian.
evp	furthest	adverb	1	B1	most distant	That's the furthest I can see without glasses.	
evp	fury	noun	1	C2	extreme anger or force	The storm raged with mounting fury.	It does not happen a lot that I sit down in anger and fury to write an open letter to the "Esslebury Gazette."
evp	fuss	noun	1	C1	when people become excited, annoyed, or anxious about something, especially something unimportant	What was all the fuss about?	The Internet contains more information than any library, more easily accessible and without the fuss of library cards or the risk of losing books.
evp	fussy	adjective	1	C2	only liking particular things and very difficult to please	She's a very fussy eater.	When visiting a foreign country it may be difficult not to be fussy about food as well, and again, that is because of habits.
evp	fussy	adjective	2	C2	too careful about unimportant details	He's very fussy about keeping his car clean.	And this importance of presentation and almost fussy preciseness are reflected in our tradition.
evp	gadget	noun	1	C1	a small piece of equipment that does a particular job, especially a new type	a kitchen gadget	I believe that robots and hi-tech gadgets will definitely invade our private and professional life.
evp	gain	verb	1	B1	to get something useful or positive, especially over a period of time	After you've gained some experience teaching abroad you can come home and get a job.	You must explain to them that you need to gain some experience.
evp	gain	verb	2	B1	to increase in something such as size, weight, or amount	He's gained a lot of weight in the last few months.	I'm sure it is one of the best ways not to gain weight.
evp	gain	noun	1	C1	when you get something useful or positive	financial/personal gain	The aim of this report is to describe the gain or loss of respect of some jobs in Spain, explaining why this has occurred and talking about the future changes in job status.
evp	gain	noun	2	C1	an increase in something such as size, weight, or amount	Side effects of the medication may include tiredness, headaches or weight gain.	Consumption of pre-cooked meals, fast food, and canned food not only results in weight gain but also causes health problems.
evp	gallery	noun	1	B1	a room or building which is used for showing works of art	the National Portrait Gallery	Then there are a lot of museums and art galleries which you could visit.
evp	gamble	verb	1	C2	to risk money on the result of a game, race, or competition	He gambled away all of her savings.	In fact on the first night they almost gambled it all away, but John got lucky at the last minute and won 25 thousand dollars.
evp	gamble	noun	1	C2	a risk that you take that something will succeed	Buying this place was a big gamble, but it seems to have paid off.	Racing along the corridor I took a gamble and rushed for the lord's office, where the documents were likely to be.
evp	gambling	noun	1	B2	the activity of betting money, for example in a game or on a horse race	Gambling can be addictive.	One night we went gambling in the hotel casino.
evp	game	noun	1	A1	an entertaining activity or sport that people play	computer games	Martin likes to play games on his Xbox every day.
evp	game	noun	2	A2	a particular competition, match or occasion when people play a game	We played a game of volleyball.	I also saw a basketball game between the Rockets and the Knicks.
evp	game	noun	3	C2	to not deal with a situation seriously or honestly	Someone's life is in danger here - we're not playing games.	I couldn't possibly get all that money together, and the kidnappers were not playing games.
evp	gang	noun	1	B2	a group of young people who spend time together, usually fighting with other groups and behaving badly	a gang member	It was two days ago. I wanted to join Joe's gang, but first I had to prove my courage.
evp	gang	noun	2	B2	a group of criminals who work together	a gang of armed robbers	The infamous gang had robbed twelve families of all their belongings.
evp	gang	noun	3	C2	a group of young friends	I'm going camping with Holly and the rest of the gang.	A whole gang of us decided to go on an excursion, as we did once a month.
evp	gap	noun	1	B2	an empty space, hole or opening	She has a small gap between her front teeth.	We need much more playgrounds in and around Leipzig. Because of the World War II there are gaps between several old houses - so our town should take the chance to remember our children and to do something for them.
evp	gap	noun	2	B2	a difference between two things	an age gap	It is a general rule that there is a great gap between generations which leads to different ideas and mentalities between children and parents.
evp	gap	noun	3	B2	something that is absent and stops something from being complete	There are still huge gaps in my knowledge.	Another huge gap in our town is the absence of a swimming pool.
evp	gap	noun	4	B2	a period of time spent doing something different	After a gap of five years, Jennifer decided to go back to work full-time.	Finally, on the last day, I suggest you could go to the market in town during the 3-hour gap.
evp	garage	noun	1	A2	a small building, often next to a house, that you can put a car in	Did you put the car in the garage?	My house has got a garden but it hasn't got a garage.
evp	garage	noun	2	B1	a business that repairs cars, and sometimes also sells fuel	The car's still at the garage getting fixed.	I took it to the garage and they are fixing it now but it will take time to repair it.
evp	garbage	noun	1	B1	food waste and other things that you throw away because you do not want them	a garbage bag/can	The streets are dirty and smell bad and here there isn't] a big place to throw the garbage away.
evp	garden	noun	1	A1	a piece of land belonging to a house, where flowers and other plants are grown	a vegetable garden	I dropped it when we were playing with your dog in the garden.
evp	garden	noun	2	C1	public places where flowers, trees, and other plants are grown for people to enjoy	the New York Botanical Garden	Public places like the Zoo or the Botanic Gardens are closed, which effects tourists much more than the local people.
evp	gardener	noun	1	B2	someone who works in a garden, growing plants and making it look attractive	They employ two gardeners.	You can become a very good gardener and walk very long distances.
evp	gardening	noun	1	B2	the job or activity of growing a garden and keeping it attractive	She enjoys gardening.	After four years of studying and doing the A level exam, I still don't have any qualification in gardening, but I really like flowers and plants.
evp	garlic	noun	1	A2	a vegetable like a small onion with a very strong taste and smell	a clove of garlic	
evp	garment	noun	1	C1	a piece of clothing	They were luxurious garments, made of silk and velvet.	Their garments consisted of four layers of robes.
evp	gas	noun	1	A2	a liquid fuel used in cars and trucks	the gas tank	
evp	gas	noun	2	B1	a substance in a form like air that is used as a fuel for heating and cooking	a gas stove	You can also see how life is in our African villages, where there is no electricity or gas and where water comes only from the river.
evp	gas	noun	3	B2	a substance in a form like air that is neither solid nor liquid	Oxygen, hydrogen and nitrogen are all gases.	All people know that CO2 is a very dangerous gas for all kinds of animals.
evp	gasoline	noun	1	B2	gas, a liquid fuel for cars and trucks	regular/unleaded gasoline	Actually we know that gasoline is very expensive.
evp	gasp	verb	1	C2	to make a noise by suddenly breathing in because you are shocked or surprised	She gasped in horror as the car spun out of control.	I gasped with astonishment at the juggler's dexterity.
evp	gasp	verb	2	C2	to breathe loudly and with difficulty trying to get more air	He clutched his heart, gasping for breath.	They danced until they were so tired that they fell to the ground, still laughing and gasping for air.
evp	gasp	noun	1	C2	the noise that someone makes when they gasp	a gasp of surprise	His gasp startled the other sleeping tourists & they all crawled and stumbled onto their feet.
evp	gas station	noun	1	A2	a place where you buy gas for a car	Where's the nearest gas station?	It's on your left, near the gas station.
evp	gate	noun	1	A2	the part of a fence or outside wall that opens and closes like a door	Please close the gate.	Let's meet at the school gate.
evp	gate	noun	2	B1	a part of an airport where passengers get on or off an aircraft	The flight to Dublin is now boarding at gate 8.	I got to the airport and started looking for gate 23 and there he was, my friend that had come back from London with a surprise for me.
evp	gather	verb	1	B2	to join other people somewhere to make a group, or to bring people together into a group	A crowd had gathered to hear her speak.	People had gathered in front of a particular painting.
evp	gather	verb	2	B2	to collect several things, often from different places or people	We gathered our things together and left quickly.	I have gathered over three hundred species: flowers, roots, leaves and other thing]s
evp	gather	verb	3	C1	to believe something because of information you have heard or seen	From the look on their faces, she gathered (that) they were annoyed with her.	The payment would be OK, I gather, but we would rely on tips to earn enough money.
evp	gather	verb	4	C1	to increase in speed/momentum/support, etc.	Finally, the train began to gather speed, and we were on our way.	The use of rail was a bit fluctuating until around 1995, but gathered momentum after that.
evp	gathering	noun	1	C1	a party or a meeting when many people get together as a group	a family gathering	Parks, for example, can't be used for a barbeque or family gathering in the winter time.
evp	gay	adjective	1	B1	homosexual	gay rights	If you are not a religious person, if you have got divorced and you want to get married again, or if you are gay, you must get married in a civil ceremony]
evp	gear	noun	1	B2	a set of parts in a motor vehicle or bicycle that control how fast the wheels turn	a mountain bike with 21 gears	It has 24 active gears and multilink [K]evl[a]r brakes.
evp	gear	noun	2	B2	a particular position of the gears in a motor vehicle or bicycle that controls how fast the wheels turn	The light turned green, but I couldn't get into first gear.	I wrenched the car into first gear and stormed off to the office.
evp	gear	noun	3	B2	the clothes and equipment used for a particular purpose	fishing/camping gear	I'll see you in a week and don't forget your cycling gear.
evp	gender	noun	1	B2	the state of being male or female	Does this test show the gender of the baby?	There were many speakers who talked about all sorts of subjects such as politics, religion, gender identity, and art.
evp	gender	noun	2	B2	the division of nouns, pronouns and adjectives into masculine, feminine and neuter types	In English, nouns don't have gender, but in French and Spanish, they do.	
evp	gene	noun	1	C1	a part of a cell that is passed on from a parent to a child and that controls particular characteristics	Scientists have discovered the gene responsible for causing this disease.	I think it would be reasonable to include capsules with human genes and the genetic material of endangered species.
evp	general	adjective	1	B1	not detailed, but including the most basic or necessary information	These leaflets contain some general information about the school.	By seeing the film, we are able to understand the general idea of the story.
evp	general	adjective	2	B1	usually, or in most situations	In general, men are taller than women.	In general, when anybody in my country has a wedding, the families invite all friends and neighbours to the wedding.
evp	general	adjective	3	B2	involving or relating to most or all people, things or places	There is general concern about rising crime rates.	The decision has already been made by general agreement.
evp	general	adjective	4	B2	including a lot of things or subjects and not limited to only one or a few	general knowledge	To improve the general knowledge of the students, it might be a good idea to offer more newspapers than magazines.
evp	general	adjective	5	B2	considering the whole of someone or something, and not just a particular part of them	So, apart from the bad ankle, how are you in general?	I think that I, as well as people in general, would have been more depressed if we didn't have light.
evp	generalization	noun	1	C1	when someone says something very basic that is often true but not always true	It's a sweeping generalization to say that girls read more than boys.	Of course this is a very simple generalization of the issue. There are many aspects that can influence our approach towards work and money.
evp	generalize	verb	1	C1	to say something very basic that is often true but not always true	You can't generalize about a continent as varied as Europe.	I am not however generalizing. There are very successful and well known people who come from all walks of life.
evp	generally	adverb	1	B1	usually, or in most situations	I generally wake up early.	I generally prefer reading newspapers, but I don't dislike books.
evp	generally	adverb	2	B2	considering the whole of someone or something, and not just a particular part of them	My health is generally very good.	Generally, Athens has a lot of things to do.
evp	generally	adverb	3	B2	by most people, or to most people	He is generally believed to be their best player.	It is generally acknowledged that it depends on the zoo because sometimes the animals are loved and sometimes hated.
evp	generate	verb	1	B2	to cause something to exist	The new development will generate 1500 new jobs.	Football generates every kind of emotion: happiness, sadness, and above all passion.
evp	generate	verb	2	B2	to produce energy	The wind farm may be able to generate enough electricity for 2000 homes.	In France, for instance, more than three-quarters of all electricity is generated from nuclear power.
evp	generation	noun	1	B1	all the people in a society or family who are approximately the same age	the older/younger generation	Some people say that cell phones are a bad influence on the younger generation.
evp	generation	noun	2	B2	a period of about 25 to 30 years, the time it takes for children to become adults and take the place of their parents in society	Our family has lived in this village for generations.	Salzburg is a beautiful medieval town - it has got a wonderful cathedral, which was built by entire generations of Italian artisans.
evp	generation	noun	3	B2	a product when it is at a particular stage of development	a new generation of computers	I can sum up the most important things that changed my life are the telephone, the computer, the portable phone and of course the new generation of television.
evp	generation	noun	4	B2	the production of energy in a particular form	electricity generation from wind and wave power	[T]he energy generation crisis Brazil is having to deal with is well known]
evp	generosity	noun	1	B2	the quality of being generous	Her friends take advantage of her generosity.	Anna, thank you again for your generosity.
evp	generous	adjective	1	B1	willing to give other people money, help, kindness, etc.	She's been very generous with her time.	I like her because she is a generous, kindly, interesting person.
evp	generous	adjective	2	C1	larger than usual or than expected	a generous discount for students	It's a pleasure to me to write this letter thanking you all for the generous hospitality I've met with in your home.
evp	generously	adverb	1	B2	in a generous way	Please give generously to help children in need.	I can't think of any other person who opens her house so generously as you do!
evp	genetic	adjective	1	C1	relating to genes	a rare genetic disorder	Mendel thought that basically it is the genetic material which is responsible for the future development of a child.
evp	genetically modified	adjective	1	C1	having had some of the genes changed by a scientific process	They are opposed to genetically modified food.	Despite the fact that the European Union prohibited genetically modified products in its countries, we are still using pesticides, causing pollution and food poisoning.
evp	genetics	noun	1	B2	the scientific study of the parts of cells that control particular characteristics (genes)	Next year, I'll be studying genetics.	We use technology in order to save human lives and to explore strange new worlds, such as genetics.
evp	genius	noun	1	C1	someone who is extremely intelligent or extremely good at doing something	Einstein was a genius.	And what about Mozart - poor little genius!
evp	genius	noun	2	C2	the quality of being extremely intelligent or extremely good at doing something	Einstein's genius	Nothing is more common than unrewarded genius and misused talents.
evp	gentle	adjective	1	B1	kind, calm and careful not to upset or hurt anyone	My mother was such a gentle, loving person.	Mani is very kind and gentle.
evp	gentle	adjective	2	B1	not violent, severe or strong	gentle exercise	The weather is sunny, the gentle breeze is pure and fresh.
evp	gentle	adjective	3	C1	A gentle slope or climb is not steep.	It was a fairly gentle climb to the summit.	THE TOUR Trained guides lead people across gentle slopes towards thick woods displaying a wide variety of birds and animal life.
evp	gentleman	noun	1	B2	a polite word for "man"	Ladies and gentlemen, the show is about to begin.	So she walked up on the stage and started speaking steadily into the microphone: "Ladies and gentlemen...." This is how the story ended.
evp	gently	adverb	1	B2	calmly, kindly or softly	He held the baby gently in his arms.	Now I am older and I speak to my mother very gently.
evp	genuine	adjective	1	B2	If something is genuine, it is really what it seems to be.	genuine leather	The bicycle is a genuine Shimano bicycle.
evp	genuine	adjective	2	C1	If a person is genuine or someone's feelings are genuine, they are sincere and honest.	They showed genuine sympathy for our situation.	On the other hand, it is well known in environmental management that strategies that work via the people's purse are often the only way to motivate people who have little genuine interest in environmental problems (or just too many other concerns).
evp	genuinely	adverb	1	B2	in a genuine or sincere way	I'm genuinely sorry for the extra work this has caused.	We are all genuinely interested in English literature.
evp	geography	noun	1	A2	the study of the physical surface of the Earth and all regions of the world	a degree in geography and economics	I left my geography book at your house yesterday.
evp	geology	noun	1	C1	the study of rocks and soil and the physical structure of the Earth	a book about geology	I have graduated from school and I am now studying geology at the University of Greece.
evp	germ	noun	1	C1	a very small living thing that causes disease	Wash your hands before cooking so that you don't spread germs.	I am more careful with cleaning up and taking care of my baby. It was amazing the way they spoke about germs and dust.
evp	germ	noun	2	C2	the beginning of something	the germ of a brilliant idea	Going back to the scene at More's home, we now understand why this is the germ of the subsequent development of the play.
evp	gerund	noun	1	C1	A gerund is a noun made from the form of a verb that ends with -ing, for example "fishing" in "John loves fishing."	We learned about gerunds today.	
evp	gesture	noun	1	C1	a movement you make with your hand, arm, or head to express what you are thinking or feeling	He made a rude gesture to the crowd.	Review - The Body Speaks [...] In the second part, you are taught how to read the gestures, voice, and hesitations, and analyze them.
evp	gesture	noun	2	C1	something you do to show people how you feel about a person or situation	It would be a nice gesture to invite her to dinner.	Dear Sir, I am the secretary of the Student Committee in Bringtown College and I am writing to thank you for your kind gesture in inviting me to the opening of the new Arts Cent[e]r.
evp	gesture	verb	1	C2	to point at something or express something using your hand, arm, or head	He gestured toward the window.	She gestured to the hall's expensive Persian carpets and the extensive collection of French Impressionists hanging on the walls.
evp	get	verb	1	A1	to obtain or buy something	I'll get some bread on the way home.	We could get the afternoon ticket.
evp	get	verb	2	A1	to receive or be given something	I got some very nice presents for my birthday.	I got your note.
evp	get	verb	3	A1	to reach or arrive at a particular place	We got home later than usual.	I had a good time at your house last night but when I got home I realized I had forgotten my bag!
evp	get	verb	4	A1	to travel somewhere in a bus, train, taxi or other vehicle	Should we get a taxi to the station?	You can get the train.
evp	get	verb	5	A2	to go somewhere and bring back someone or something	Wait here while I get the car.	I decided to go on with my plan and get my father's car.
evp	get	verb	6	A2	to begin a legal relationship with someone as their husband or wife	They got married in April.	She was going to get married, and I was invited to the wedding.
evp	get	verb	7	B1	to become ill or develop an illness	I'm getting another cold.	I was angry, and I got a cold!
evp	get	verb	8	B1	to start to be cold/ill/late, etc.	Your coffee's getting cold.	It's getting late so I should finish now.
evp	get	verb	9	B1	to become more ill, unpleasant, difficult, severe, etc. than before	My cold seems to be getting worse.	I thought, it couldn't get worse.
evp	get	verb	10	B1	to have something done to you	He got killed in the war.	Two weeks ago many people at school got injured because of an explosion, so a TV company came to film what the school is like now ...
evp	get	verb	11	B1	to produce an answer or result that is not correct, or to say or write something that is not correct	I got most of the answers wrong.	
evp	get	verb	12	B1	to do a task, or to arrange for someone to do a task for you	Could you get the kids dressed?	First I have to go to the doctor and then I have to get my teeth checked by the dentist.
evp	get	verb	13	B1	to contact someone	Please get in touch if you ever come back to Madrid.	Get in touch soon.
evp	get	verb	14	B1	to move to a different place or into a different position	I saw her getting into his car.	They said that I got into a car by myself (they thought that I had believed the story).
evp	get	verb	15	B1	to deal with or answer a ringing telephone, a knock on the door, etc.	Could you get the phone, Al?	
evp	get	verb	16	B1	to spend time with someone or something so that you gradually learn more about them	The first couple of meetings are for the doctor and patient to get to know each other.	I hope you can come here and get to know him.
evp	get	verb	17	B1	to throw something away or give something to someone because you no longer want it	We must get rid of some of those old books.	Do you think I'd better get rid of the sofa and place the bookshelf there]
evp	get	verb	18	B2	to end something unpleasant	I can't seem to get rid of this headache.	[The] first step is to get rid of smoking.
evp	get	verb	19	B2	to make something happen, or make someone or something do something	I can't get my computer to work!	We must get the councillors to change their minds.
evp	get	verb	20	B2	to develop an opinion about a situation because of something that you notice	I got the feeling that she was really angry about the situation.	I disagree with some points you mentioned and would like to share the impression I got from that popular holiday report during my two-week trip.
evp	get	verb	21	B2	to annoy someone, especially by doing something again and again	If we spend too much time together, we end up getting on each other's nerves.	Sometimes, receiving a phone call can disturb very important events in a person's] life, but it also gets on people's nerves when you use it in a public place like a train.
evp	get	verb	22	B2	to have the chance to do something	I never got to meet her.	I did get to meet a musician, a singer named Anouk.
evp	get	verb	23	B2	to understand or hear something	That joke that he told  - did you get it?	
evp	get	verb	24	C1	to make an effort to control your emotions and behave more calmly	Stop panicking and get a grip on yourself!	The best thing to do was to talk to people who were not doing the test rather than building up my anxiety. However, I did not do this and it almost resulted in a disaster, but I got a grip on myself and just barely passed.
evp	get	verb	25	C1	to make someone leave	We finally got rid of my little sister by telling her scary stories.	Improving your English on your own (or a self-guide on how to get rid of your English teacher!).
evp	get	verb	26	C1	to make sure that you completely understand a situation	Let me get this straight - am I paying for this?	Next time you should try to get your facts straight.
evp	get	verb	27	C2	to become better organized so that you can make progress	I wish she'd get her act together.	He was determined to get his act together and try to find a solution to his problem.
evp	get	verb	28	C2	to become difficult to control	It was the end of week and the children were getting a little out of hand.	A few solutions can prevent this problem from getting out of hand.
evp	get	verb	29	C2	to learn how to do something, especially if it is not obvious or simple	I've never used one of these before. - Don't worry, you'll soon get the hang of it.	It was quite hard to get the hang of it, as I didn't have any knowledge of English.
evp	get	verb	30	C2	to hurry	We're leaving in five minutes, so get moving!	"Oh, look at the time, we must get moving!"
evp	get	verb	31	C2	to hurry	Come on, get a move on!	"All the lights will be switched off in 28 minutes, so I have to get a move on," I said to myself, as I started to write on a new piece of paper.
evp	get	verb	32	C2	If something gets you nowhere, it does not help you to succeed.	Bad manners will get you nowhere.	As this is a loophole in the law system, it's creating a conflict between house-owners and squatters and getting them nowhere.
evp	get	verb	33	C2	used to say that someone understands a situation	Oh right, I get the picture.	If you use a photograph though, you can be sure that everyone will get the picture (pun intended) and probably remember the person you're talking about next time they see him.
evp	get	verb	34	C2	to begin	The film festival gets underway on July 11th.	
evp	get	verb	35	C2	to tell someone about something that you have been worried or angry about for a long time	Tell me what's wrong - you'll feel better if you get it off your chest.	Chris is always caring and lends you his ear if there's something you need to get off your chest.
evp	get	verb	36	B2	to manage to make someone understand or believe something	We tried to get our point across, but he just wouldn't
listen.	I am going to get across several ideas to improve the look of our town.
evp	get	verb	37	A2	to have a good relationship	She and her new roommate are getting along.	She is a journalist at the local newspaper and we get along very well.
evp	get	verb	38	B1	to travel or move from place to place	The busses and subway make it easy to get around New York City.	The island isn't too big so I think we could get around on foot.
evp	get	verb	39	B2	to do something that you have intended to do for a long time	I still haven't got around to fixing that faucet.	Dear Kim, I am terribly sorry not to drop you a line since the last time we wrote to one another. But I finally got around to writing and you'll see that it's definitely worth waiting as I have some great and unbelievable news to tell you.
evp	get	verb	40	B2	to be able to reach or get something	I've put the cake on a high shelf where the kids can't get at it.	
evp	get	verb	41	C1	If you ask someone what they are getting at, you are asking them what they really mean.	What do you think the poet is getting at in these lines?	The point I'm getting at is that you have to understand that young people look at sports like school: it's something you do that makes you feel good afterward and computer games are something you do when you have some spare time.
evp	get	verb	42	B2	to leave or escape from a place or person, often when it is difficult to do this	We walked to the next beach to get away from the crowds.	[A] bicycle is a means of making new friends, and getting away from your daily routine.
evp	get	verb	43	B2	to go somewhere for a short vacation, often because you need to rest	I just need to get away for a few days.	I've enjoyed the peace of getting away, you know I needed it.
evp	get	verb	44	B2	to succeed in not being criticized or punished for something	If I thought I could get away with it, I wouldn't pay any tax at all.	When the police arrived, the criminals had already disappeared: they got away with this murder.
evp	get	verb	45	A2	to return to a place after you have been somewhere else	When we got back to the hotel, Ann had already left.	Will call you when I get back.
evp	get	verb	46	B2	to be given something again that you had before	He went next door to get his ball back.	He hoped that he would get back his suitcase.
evp	get	verb	47	C1	to talk or write to someone at a later time to give them some information they asked for or because you were not able to speak to them before	I need to get back to Gary about his new computer.	I am awfully sorry for having been slow in getting back to you.
evp	get	verb	48	B2	to make someone feel unhappy	All this uncertainty is really getting me down.	But when I had finally reached the bottom of the valley seeing the whole ski group staring at me, the embarrassment got me down.
evp	get	verb	49	B2	to start doing something seriously and with a lot of attention and effort	Before we get down to business, I'd like to thank you all for coming today.	Let's get down to business!
evp	get	verb	50	B1	to succeed in entering a place, especially a building	They must have gotten in through the bathroom window.	[W]e had to hang out in front of the Museum for almost one hour. When we finally got in there, the tour was very short.
evp	get	verb	51	B1	to arrive at a place at a particular time	My flight gets in at 9:45 p.m.	
evp	get	verb	52	B2	to succeed in being chosen or elected	He wanted to go to Stanford, but he didn't get in.	For the first time I was trying to get in a University or a High College.
evp	get	verb	53	B2	to succeed in being chosen or elected	He got into Harvard.	A month later on, I finally got into a High College of Education, but almost 400 km from home.
evp	get	verb	54	C1	to become interested in an activity or subject, or start being involved in an activity	How did you get into journalism?	Taking everything into account, I truly believe that "Ethnos" is the most suitable newspaper to be placed in the library [...] for every student who would like to learn Greek deeply and get into the Greek culture and civilization.
evp	get	verb	55	A2	to leave a bus, train, aircraft or boat	We should get off at the next stop.	Then get off the bus in Obdland Village and walk up the road.
evp	get	verb	56	A2	to go onto a bus, train, aircraft or boat	I think we got on the wrong bus.	Last Saturday I was running to get on the bus, but my schoolbag was open and the diary fell out]
evp	get	verb	57	B2	to continue doing something, especially work	We don’t have all day to finish this job, so can we just get on with it?	I must go and get on with my homework.
evp	get	verb	58	B1	to leave a closed vehicle, building, etc.	I'll get out when you stop at the traffic light.	Suddenly the lights went out and I was there, desperately trying to find a way to get out of the house!
evp	get	verb	59	C1	to go out to different places and meet people in order to enjoy yourself	She doesn't get out as much now that she had the baby.	Since Internet, e-mails and mobile phones were invented, fewer people get out and meet friends.
evp	get	verb	60	B2	to avoid doing something that you do not want to do, especially by giving an excuse	If I can get out of going to the meeting tonight I will.	I must go to Tokyo on business that Wednesday afternoon. This is a kind of step up for me and I can't get out of it.
evp	get	verb	61	C1	to escape from or leave a place, or to help someone do this	I left the door open and the cat got out.	"Don't panic, now, Lorraine", he answered me. "He may be a little .... um, eccentric, but I'm sure he'll get us out of here fine."
evp	get	verb	62	B2	to get better after an illness, or feel better after something or someone has made you unhappy	She's still getting over the flu.	First of all, she had had to get over the deaths of three close relatives in the last three years.
evp	get	verb	63	B2	to be very shocked or surprised about something	I can't get over how different you look with short hair.	I can't get over how quickly you wrote to me.
evp	get	verb	64	B2	to succeed in an examination or competition	She got through her exams without too much trouble.	I know you want to get through your exams.
evp	get	verb	65	C1	to deal with a difficult or unpleasant experience, or to help someone do this	My friendship with Carla got me through those tough months just after we moved.	You see, my friend, how life can be a bit difficult but people manage to get through it.
evp	get	verb	66	C1	to succeed in making someone understand or believe something	I just don't seem to be able to get through to him these days.	He should make the lesson interesting and should manage to get through to children.
evp	get	verb	67	C2	to make someone feel upset or angry	I know he's annoying but you shouldn't let him get to you.	But they are overprotective and it gets to me very much.
evp	get	verb	68	B1	to meet in order to do something or spend time together	A few of us are getting together next week for a drink.	During a Chinese wedding ceremony, new couples wear traditional clothes and hold a party for friends and families getting together.
evp	get	verb	69	B2	to stand up	The whole audience got up and started clapping.	When I got up on my feet again I reached out my arm to get a hold on something, but there wasn't anything to hold on to.
evp	get	verb	70	A1	to wake up and get out of bed, or make someone do this	I had to get up at five o'clock this morning.	My friend gets up early.
evp	ghost	noun	1	B1	the spirit of a dead person	Do you believe in ghosts?	We saw a horror film. It was about ghosts and vampires!
evp	giant	adjective	1	B1	extremely large	a giant spider	Harry Potter fought with the giant snake and he won.
evp	giant	noun	1	C1	an imaginary man who is much bigger and stronger than ordinary men	The story is about a friendly giant.	People have always seen him as a "big friendly giant", always ready to help those who are in need.
evp	giant	noun	2	C2	a very large and important company or organization	a media/software giant	In less than 15 years Bill Gates has built up his own company from scratch and turned it into a computer giant.
evp	gift	noun	1	A2	a present or something that is given	a wedding gift	The guitar was my father's gift. It is the best gift I've ever received.
evp	gift	noun	2	C1	a natural ability or skill	She has a gift for design.	He understands the thought processes of children quite well, and has a gift for making difficult concepts understandable to youngsters, which obviously means he would be a very good supervisor.
evp	gifted	adjective	1	C1	A gifted person has a natural ability or is extremely intelligent.	a gifted athlete	Roger Federer is a young and extremely gifted tennis player.
evp	giggle	verb	1	C2	to laugh in a nervous or silly way	She started giggling and couldn't stop.	Clara, a thin woman in her late fifties, giggled and her usually so flabby lips trembled as she did so.
evp	giraffe	noun	1	B1	a large African animal with a very long neck and long legs	Giraffes are the tallest land animals.	Animals like elephants, giraffes and exotic birds must be free. How would you feel living inside a cage?
evp	girl	noun	1	A1	a female child or young woman	Two girls showed us around the classrooms.	She has one girl.
evp	girl	noun	2	B1	a group of female friends	I'm going out with the girls tonight.	We were dancing all night at the club and I really enjoyed my time with the girls.
evp	girlfriend	noun	1	A2	a woman or girl who someone is having a romantic relationship with	I've never met his girlfriend.	I danced with my mother and my girlfriend Maria.
evp	girlfriend	noun	2	A2	a female friend of a girl or woman	She's going out with her girlfriends tonight.	I buy clothes once a month, and I usually go shopping with my mother or my girlfriends.
evp	give	verb	1	A1	to provide someone with something	Her parents gave her a car for her birthday.	Yesterday was my birthday and my mother gave me a small dictionary.
evp	give	verb	2	A2	to put something near someone or in their hand so that they can use it or look at it	Can you give me that pen?	We gave the monkeys some bananas to eat and played with them.
evp	give	verb	3	A2	to telephone someone	Why don't you just give him a call?	[If] you have other questions, you can give me a call.
evp	give	verb	4	A2	to tell someone something	Can you give Jo a message?	I really hope you can give me some advice.
evp	give	verb	5	A2	to have a party	They're always giving parties.	He's a very nice guy, and I would like to give him a surprise party.
evp	give	verb	6	B1	to allow someone to have a right or an opportunity	We didn't really give him a chance to explain.	I'll see you at seven o'clock to give you the chance to explain.
evp	give	verb	7	B1	to produce or cause something	What you said gives me an idea.	I hope this will give you an idea of what I like.
evp	give	verb	8	B1	to allow someone or something a particular amount of time	I'm nearly ready - just give me a few minutes.	Do you think you would be able to give me 2 hours more on Friday?
evp	give	verb	9	B1	to pay someone a particular amount of money for something	I gave him $40 for his old camera.	Jeffry gave me a mechanical pencil while Jack and Eugene gave me twenty dollars.
evp	give	verb	10	B1	to perform an action	She gave a cry.	When he saw me, he gave me a big, warm hug and a sweet kiss.
evp	give	verb	11	B2	to perform or speak in public	Tony gave a great speech to open the conference.	We would be very happy if you could come to our school and give a speech.
evp	give	verb	12	B2	When a woman or an animal gives birth, she produces a baby from her body.	She gave birth to twins.	The most important person in my life is the person who gave birth to me, my mother.
evp	give	verb	13	B2	when one thing or feeling changes to a different one	My excitement gave way to fear when I drove a car for the first time.	The feeling of anger they first had disappeared and gave way to a feeling of disappointment.
evp	give	verb	14	C2	to cause something	The bacteria live in the human body but do not give rise to any symptoms.	That visit gave rise to a fruitful discussion in which various opinions were voiced and here are some comments on them.
evp	give	verb	15	C2	If something gives way, it falls because it is not strong enough to support the weight on top of it.	The wooden seats gave way under the weight of the crowd.	Fred's voice trailed off as he felt his legs give way beneath him.
evp	give	verb	16	C2	to choose to believe what someone tells you even though it may be wrong or a lie	She says her train was late, so I suppose we'd better give her the benefit of the doubt.	Every time our parents tell us ".. have you thought about it, are you sure you are not making a mistake?" we just answer "sure I have, no problem." Next time they do, let's give them the benefit of the doubt and let's think twice about the subject.
evp	give	verb	17	C2	to be slightly better than someone or something else	Because of her experience she has an edge over the other applicants.	Reading the latest information, attending conferences and symposiums and being well informed in general about your field, gives you an edge over your competitors.
evp	give	verb	18	C2	to criticize someone and make them feel guilty about something they have done	Ever since I missed that catch, the other players have been giving me a hard time.	I'm not saying that I wasn't normal or anything, I just gave my family a hard time sometimes.
evp	give	verb	19	B1	to give something to someone without asking for payment	The bakery is giving away a sample to every customer.	She decided to give away everything she had and go to a place where nobody could find her.
evp	give	verb	20	B2	to tell people something secret, often without intending to	The party was supposed to be a surprise, but Sharon gave it away.	He gave Matthew's secret away and this made his life come to an end.
evp	give	verb	21	A2	to return something to the person who gave it to you	Has she given you those books back yet?	Please give it back to me tomorrow.
evp	give	verb	22	B1	to finally agree to what someone wants, after refusing for a period of time	He nagged me so much for a new bike that eventually I gave in.	What you should do is talk to your parents and explain your problem to them. [Your] parents may give in!
evp	give	verb	23	B2	to accept that you have been defeated and agree to stop competing or fighting	You'll never guess the answer - do you give in?	
evp	give	verb	24	B1	to give something to a large number of people	Please give these worksheets out, Maria.	At the concert, what I had to do was to give out refreshments to the audience.
evp	give	verb	25	B1	to stop doing a regular activity or job	We're going to give up our sports club membership after this year.	I believe that you should continue sports rather than music for as you mentioned in your letter you have always done sports and you can't give all that up for music classes.
evp	give	verb	26	B1	If you give up a habit, such as smoking, or something such as alcohol, you stop doing it or using it.	I gave up smoking two years ago.	The reason why he is not happy could be that he can't give up drinking so much and it gets him down.
evp	give	verb	27	B2	to stop doing an activity or piece of work before you have completed it, usually because it is too difficult	I had to give up halfway through the race.	The most important thing is that you should keep doing it. Don't give up!!
evp	give-and-take	noun	1	C2	the willingness to accept some of another person's ideas and give up some of your own	Any successful negotiation involves some give-and-take.	It is a give-and-take suggestion that in the sum up benefits the sector of population which is not under the coverage of state programs.
evp	glad	adjective	1	A2	pleased and happy	I'm glad (that) you came.	I'm very glad to hear that.
evp	glad	adjective	2	B2	very willing to do something	She's always glad to help.	I know him personally and I'm sure he'll be very glad to help you.
evp	glad	adjective	3	C1	to be grateful for something	I'm glad of the opportunity to express my thanks.	I lived in a very nice host family (I am very glad of it), but it was too big a distance from the school - about four miles.
evp	glamour	noun	1	C1	the quality of being attractive, exciting and special	Hollywood glamour	The red carpet, the glamour, the glitter, the fame are things we all dream about at one point or another in our lives.
evp	glare	noun	1	C2	strong, bright light that hurts your eyes	I get a lot of glare from my computer screen.	As often as not, pressing the switch gave no result or yielded the glare of a naked bulb.
evp	glare	noun	2	C2	a long, angry look	She gave me an angry glare.	His glare said everything; she was the worst thing that had ever happened to the school.
evp	glare	verb	1	C2	to look at someone in an angry way	She glared at him and stormed out of the room.	You open the door and "Surprise!!": it's] your mother and father, who have just arrived from the country to spend the weekend with you. You glare at your mother, imagining that.
evp	glass	noun	1	A1	a hard transparent substance that objects such as windows and bottles are made of	broken glass	The present I loved the most was a cute little cat made from glass.
evp	glass	noun	2	A1	a container made of glass that is used for drinking	Would you like a glass of water?	Usually for breakfast we have some sandwiches with cheese and ham and a glass of milk.
evp	glasses	noun	1	A1	a piece of equipment with two transparent parts that you wear in front of your eyes to help you see better	a pair of glasses	Roger, I think I have left my glasses in the kitchen.
evp	glimpse	noun	1	C1	when you see something or someone for a very short time	He caught/got a glimpse of her as she got into the car.	If you go to Canada, like I did, you will enjoy great camping in the Rockies and might even catch a glimpse of the famous bears.
evp	global	adjective	1	B2	relating to the whole world	a global disaster	The improvement of electronics and global communications has made it possible to keep in close contact with friends all over the world.
evp	globalization	noun	1	C1	the process by which businesses operate in many different countries and the culture of different countries becomes more similar	the globalization of fashion	These dishes have been eaten for generations. However, globalization and changing work patterns have changed traditions in big cities.
evp	globally	adverb	1	B2	in a way that relates to the whole world	The company has to be able to compete
globally.	Since I went to Canada, I realized we should think about environmental pollution globally.
evp	global warming	noun	1	B2	a gradual increase in world temperatures caused by polluting gases	Very few people now deny that global warming is caused by humankind.	Also, due to global warming, sea levels might rise and the risk of flooding will also rise.
evp	glory	noun	1	C1	when people praise and respect you for achieving something important	It was my idea, but she got all the glory.	This point of view states that it is more fulfilling for a single person to achieve a goal on their own, without having to share the glory with other people and that by doing it alone, one really feels that one has achieved something.
evp	glory	noun	2	C1	the quality of being very impressive or beautiful	The castle has been restored to its former glory.	Two years ago, the state, helped by the community of the island, gave birth to an ambitious plan to restore this beach to its former glory.
evp	glove	noun	1	A2	a piece of clothing which covers your fingers and hand	a pair of gloves	Remember to bring gloves as well.
evp	glow	noun	1	C2	a soft, warm light	the warm glow of the moon	The sun was setting, leaving a pink glow on everything it touched and the air smelled like fresh-cut grass.
evp	glow	noun	2	C2	when your face feels or appears warm and healthy	Sam's face had lost its rosy glow.	After about three weeks of using this product by Morway Company, you will notice that your face looks softer and has a natural healthy glow.
evp	glow	verb	1	C2	to produce a soft, warm light	toys that glow in the dark	You can safely invest i] juggling equipment that glows in the dark, has flashing lights - or even that is set afire before starting to juggle with it.
evp	glow	verb	2	C2	to have a warm and healthy appearance	Her eyes were bright and her cheeks were glowing.	While the tourists were getting dressed, Ingrid, a tall middle-aged woman, checked the humidity of her armpits and that reminded her of the sentence: "Horses sweat, men perspire, women glow."
evp	glow	verb	3	C2	to feel very happy, proud, etc.	Glowing with pride, she showed me her painting.	I never use it, of course, but just knowing I possess it makes me glow with happiness.
evp	glue	noun	1	C2	a substance used to stick things together	Put a little glue on both edges and hold them together.	On the contrary, sometimes, with the help of our teachers, we had to fix them using "emergency" solutions and materials, such as tape and glue.
evp	glue	verb	1	C2	to stick something to something else with glue	Do you think you can glue this vase back together?	That is why my father glued and nailed the back of it so nobody could ever open the frame.
evp	glue	verb	2	C2	to be watching something, especially television	The kids were glued to the TV all morning.	In general, it can be said that the modern mass obsession with television has led to the fact that more people nowadays lead a sedentary way of life, not to mention their being couch potatoes, glued to the screen for most of their leisure time.
evp	go	verb	1	A1	to move or travel somewhere	I'd like to go to Japan.	I'd like to go to Hawaii.
evp	go	verb	2	A1	to move or travel somewhere in order to do something	Let's go for a walk.	I also have a dog and I like to go for a walk with him]
evp	go	verb	3	A1	to visit stores in order to buy things	We went shopping last Saturday.	We often go shopping.
evp	go	verb	4	A2	to go somewhere to do a particular activity	We went skating yesterday.	I'd like to go swimming.
evp	go	verb	5	A2	to intend to do or be something	I'm going to call her tonight.	I'm going to paint my bedroom yellow.
evp	go	verb	6	A2	used to say that something is expected to happen in the future	It's going to snow tonight.	I think it's going to rain tomorrow]
evp	go	verb	7	A2	to empty the body of urine or solid waste, usually using a toilet in a bathroom	It's going to be a long ride, kids, so if you need to go to the bathroom do it now.	Where did he leave his suitcase] He was going to miss his flight. He remembered he had gone to the bathroom! He hurried and found his suitcase!
evp	go	verb	8	B1	to develop in a particular way	My exams went really well.	I hope everything is going well.
evp	go	verb	9	B1	to develop problems	Something's gone wrong with my computer.	Despite all that went wrong, there was something I really enjoyed. It was visiting the Diamond Cave.
evp	go	verb	10	B1	to disappear or no longer exist	The food was all gone by the time we got to the party.	When I came to take my suitcase, it had gone!
evp	go	verb	11	B1	If two things go, they match each other.	That top doesn't go with these pants.	
evp	go	verb	12	B1	to become bald/blind/gray, etc.	He went bald in his twenties.	
evp	go	verb	13	B1	If a road, path, etc. goes in a particular direction, it leads there.	This road goes north to Vermont.	
evp	go	verb	14	B1	If you ask for some food to go at a restaurant, you are asking for food that you can take away with you instead of eating it in the restaurant.	I'd like a cheeseburger and strawberry milk shake to go, please.	
evp	go	verb	15	B2	to have a particular tune or words	I can't remember how his latest song goes.	
evp	go	verb	16	B2	If time goes, it passes.	The day went very quickly.	But the time went so quickly and now I am in my early sixties with a lot of spare time.
evp	go	verb	17	B2	to make a particular sound or movement	A cat goes "Miaow."	
evp	go	verb	18	B2	to work in the right way	Did you get the car going?	
evp	go	verb	19	B2	to stop working correctly	She's very old and her hearing is going.	
evp	go	verb	20	B2	to tell or include all the facts about something	I won't go into detail over the phone, but I've been having a few health problems recently.	In one of his books he really goes into detail about how children treat other children who have difficulties with their "new" language]
evp	go	verb	21	B2	If someone goes red, their face becomes red because they are embarrassed or angry.	He kissed her on the cheek and she went bright red.	When Paul saw the girl who had got blond hair and bluish eyes, his face suddenly went red.
evp	go	verb	22	B2	If something goes without saying, it is obvious or generally accepted.	It goes without saying that smoking is harmful to your health.	It goes without saying that I will participate!
evp	go	verb	23	C1	If two things go hand in hand, they exist together and are connected with each other.	Prosperity goes hand in hand with investment.	Traffic and pollution go hand in hand.
evp	go	verb	24	C1	to provide what someone needs for a short period of time	Dinner is at eight, but I had an apple to keep me going.	Because of health concerns, advertisements lately show the people in Holland how important it is to have a good breakfast and that it will keep you going the whole day.
evp	go	verb	25	C2	to gradually become worse	After his wife died, his health started to go downhill.	He had been going downhill in the last few days and so his death came as no surprise.
evp	go	verb	26	C2	to take the extreme action of doing something	He even went so far as to stop her using the telephone.	Our present course of action may go so far as to cause irreversible damage not only to our planet but also to the people living upon it]
evp	go	verb	27	C2	to behave in a way that upsets or annoys other people	He's said some stupid things in the past, but this time he's gone too far.	Lucia let her speak and calmly said: "You really have gone too far this time."
evp	go	verb	28	C2	to do or accept what other people are doing because it is the easiest thing to do	Just relax and go with the flow!	At this stage of her progress towards knowing herself better she has accepted that life is a muddle and that to a certain extent one has to go with the flow.
evp	go	verb	29	C2	If something goes against the grain, it is something you would not normally do.	It goes against the grain to throw all this food away.	She tries to dodge George because she is afraid of admitting the fact that she loves him. It simply goes against the grain.
evp	go	verb	30	C2	to do something because you are expected to do it and not because you want to	Lately he seems to just go through the motions and doesn't enjoy the job at all.	She went through the motions of every-day-life without enthusiasm.
evp	go	verb	31	C2	to do something too much, or to be too excited about something	I think I went overboard cooking this dinner – there is enough to feed a dozen people.	While no one should restrict their eating habits to the point eating is no longer a pleasure, but rather a chore, it is important not to go overboard, completely disregarding the advice of nutrition experts.
evp	go	verb	32	C2	to try very hard to do something pleasant for someone	He went out of his way to make us feel welcome.	
evp	go	verb	33	C2	continuing to be successful or healthy after a long time	The club was set up in 1987, and it's still going strong.	I am proud of him and happy that he is still going strong.
evp	go	verb	34	B2	to start to do something	We now have permission to go ahead with the project.	I felt depressed under my parents' pressure, but I had something stronger deep inside of me saying that I should go ahead with my plan]
evp	go	verb	35	B2	something that you say to someone to allow them to do something	"Can I borrow your book?" - "Yes, go ahead."	Everyone needs something sweet from time to time. Go ahead but don't eat it too often, eat more fruit and vegetables!
evp	go	verb	36	B1	to leave a place	Just go away and leave me alone, will you?	[A] big dog appeared. We were very scared. However, the dog went away and we were able to spend a beautiful day, walking, and breathing clean air.
evp	go	verb	37	B1	to leave your home in order to spend time in a different place	We're going away for a few weeks in the summer.	My grandparents had gone away for a week.
evp	go	verb	38	B1	to return to a place where you were or where you have been before	When are you going back to Paris?	So I went back to the classroom, picked up my bag and went home.
evp	go	verb	39	B2	If time goes by, it passes.	The days went by really slowly.	The night went by slowly and my family and I had a great time and a lot of fun.
evp	go	verb	40	B1	to become lower in level	House prices have gone down recently.	Here in my city the temperature is going down, in the newspaper I read that this winter may be the coldest in many years so I'[d] like to buy a coat soon.
evp	go	verb	41	B1	When the sun goes down, it moves down in the sky until it cannot be seen any more.	I sat with Ken and Olga and watched the sun go down.	Late in the evening we can go to the beach and see the sun go down.
evp	go	verb	42	B2	to choose something	I don't know whether to go for the fish or the steak.	Please, in your next letter, let me know what kind of shopping you go for.
evp	go	verb	43	B2	to try to get or achieve something	He'll be going for his fifth Olympic gold medal.	
evp	go	verb	44	A2	to enter a place	I looked through the window but I didn't go in.	Surprisingly there was no one in the house so I used the key to open the door and then I went in.
evp	go	verb	45	B1	to leave a place and go somewhere else	They've gone off to the diner.	Luckily someone came along soon afterwards and they went off to phone for an ambulance which brought us here.
evp	go	verb	46	B1	If a light or machine goes off, it stops working.	The heating goes off at 10 o'clock.	Suddenly the computer shut down and the light went off.
evp	go	verb	47	B2	If something that makes a noise goes off, it suddenly starts making a noise.	His car alarm goes off every time it rains.	Unfortunately one of those buttons was the alarm which should be pressed in case of fire and it went off and all the staff from the restaurant came downstairs quickly.
evp	go	verb	48	B2	If a bomb or a gun goes off, it explodes or fires.	A bomb went off in the parking lot, killing three people.	
evp	go	verb	49	B1	to continue to happen or exist	The meeting went on until six o'clock.	Jonathan, this can't go on any more, this week you spent with me I could see you have been working too hard.
evp	go	verb	50	B1	to happen	Why aren't they here yet? What's going on?	"What is going on?", I asked.
evp	go	verb	51	B2	to continue doing something	We can't go on living like this.	There are many people who think that even if technology improves, our lifestyles will not change much. They think we will go on dealing with problems at home as we have always done]
evp	go	verb	52	A1	to leave a place in order to go somewhere else	Are you going out tonight?	I like to go out with my friends.
evp	go	verb	53	B1	If two people go out together, they have a romantic relationship with each other.	I've been going out with Peter for a year.	Her name is Francesca and I met her at university. She is very nice, so we decided to go out together.
evp	go	verb	54	B1	If a light or something that is burning goes out, it stops producing light or heat.	Should I put some more wood on the fire or let it go out?	I have never believed in ghosts, but why did the lights go out?
evp	go	verb	55	B2	to examine something, such as a piece of writing or some numbers, in order to make sure that it is correct	I'm just going over these figures one more time.	
evp	go	verb	56	B2	to experience a difficult or unpleasant situation or event	She's going through a difficult time at her job.	We went through a dreadful experience you can be sure.
evp	go	verb	57	B1	to become higher in level	Food prices keep going up.	You should have a lot of money because the cost of living is going up.
evp	goal	noun	1	A2	a point scored in sports such as soccer, when a player sends a ball or other object into a particular area, such as between two posts	He scored two goals in the second half.	I scored ten goals.
evp	goal	noun	2	A2	in some sports, the area between two posts, where players try to send the ball or other object	Terry headed the ball towards the goal.	I usually play in goal, but sometimes I play in attack too.
evp	goal	noun	3	B1	an aim or purpose	Do you think I'll be able to achieve my goal of losing 10 pounds?	My goal for the future is to be a sail boat captain and this trip would be a good opportunity to practise my skills.
evp	goalkeeper	noun	1	B1	the player who stands in the team's goal to try to stop the other team from scoring	He was his college soccer team's goalkeeper.	He is a very good goalkeeper.
evp	goat	noun	1	B1	an animal with horns which is kept to provide milk, meat, etc.	goat cheese	You can enjoy watching camels and goats passing once in the morning and again in the evening.
evp	gold	noun	1	A2	a valuable, shiny, yellow metal used to make coins, jewelry, etc.	The bracelet was made of solid gold.	It's made of gold and very expensive.
evp	gold	adjective	1	A2	made of gold	gold jewelry	Sammy gave me a gold ring.
evp	gold	adjective	2	A2	being the bright yellow color of gold	gold paint	I decided paint my bedroom red and gold!
evp	golden	adjective	1	A2	made of gold	a golden ring	Marinella, I have left my golden ring at your house.
evp	golden	adjective	2	A2	being the bright yellow color of gold	her golden hair	It is a mermaid Barbie with long golden hair.
evp	golden	adjective	3	B2	special, successful, or giving someone an advantage	He has a golden opportunity to do research.	As you know, my uncle has some friends in the music world and it was a golden opportunity when he asked me to help at the Tina Turner concert!
evp	golf	noun	1	A2	a game on grass where players try to hit a small ball into a series of holes, using a long, thin stick	Do you play golf?	We could go to a golf course and play golf.
evp	good	adjective	1	A1	enjoyable, pleasant or interesting	a good book/film	I think we will have a good time.
evp	good	adjective	2	A1	of a high quality or level	She speaks good French.	She likes eating good food from Argentina, for example barbecue[d meat and salad.
evp	good	adjective	3	A1	something you say when you are pleased about what someone has said	"I'm coming on Saturday." "Oh, good!"	
evp	good	adjective	4	A1	something that you say when a person asks how you are or how someone you know is	"How are you, Amelia?" "I'm good, thanks!"	Hi, Jo Is your family good?
evp	good	adjective	5	A1	successful, or able to do something well	Kate's a good cook.	He's a good football player.
evp	good	adjective	6	A1	kind or helpful	a good friend	He is a good friend.
evp	good	adjective	7	A1	making you healthy or happy	Swimming is really good for you.	I think playing basketball is good for you.
evp	good	adjective	8	A2	suitable or satisfactory	Is this a good time to talk?	Saturday is good for me, I hope that it is good for you.
evp	good	adjective	9	A2	A good child or animal behaves well.	If you're a good boy at the doctor's I'll take you swimming afterward.	I made a promise, I['ll be the good child for two months, later I['ll] return to being the devil child you know!
evp	good	adjective	10	B1	morally right	He's a very good person.	Only in this way can we give a good example to the new generation.
evp	good	adjective	11	B2	If it's a good thing that something happened, it is lucky or fortunate that it happened.	It's a good thing (that) we bought our tickets early.	I think it's a good thing that your parents are going to come, because [...] maybe it would make it easier for you to convince them to let you spend a week here during Xmas.
evp	good	adjective	12	B2	used to show approval for someone's success or good luck	You passed your exam?  Good for you!	That's great news! Good for you!
evp	good	adjective	13	C1	used to emphasize the number, amount, quality, etc., of something	There was a good deal of discussion about how much the car was worth.	Your children have a good chance of getting a better education.
evp	good	adjective	14	C1	an agreement, arrangement, or situation that benefits you	I think we got a really good deal on our new car.	The possibility of getting the needed staff from our own departments is absolutely a good deal for the company.
evp	good	adjective	15	C1	to be a pleasant or interesting person to spend time with	Ann and Charles are always good company.	He is a bit narrow-minded and at first he'll drive you crazy, but once you get to know him he'll be good company.
evp	good	adjective	16	C2	not less than 20 minutes/30 miles, etc. and probably a little more	It takes a good half hour to get downtown to the office.	The Arts and Social science field also has a good 21% of graduates in further study.
evp	good	adjective	17	C2	used to say that something has gone well until now	It's the first time I've done any decorating, but so far, so good.	So far, so good, only no one told us they held this point of view before the actual christening took place.
evp	good	adjective	18	C2	to be acceptable in a way that will not upset or anger people	His speech was in good taste.	I therefore thought that it would be in good taste to write about two of them.
evp	good	noun	1	B2	something that is an advantage or help to a person or situation	Even a small donation can do a lot of good.	Please think about this, it is for your own good.
evp	good	noun	2	B2	to not be useful, helpful or valuable	Boots are no good if they aren't waterproof.	When it is raining, you get wet and that's no good to anyone.
evp	good	noun	3	B2	to have a good effect on someone	A vacation in the sun will do you good.	I think that living and studying in another country will do you good.
evp	good	noun	4	C1	forever	When he was 20, he left home for good.	He was renting this property previously, but he went back to Sri Lanka for good.
evp	good	noun	5	C2	something that people think is morally right or will help others	Even a small donation can do a lot of good.	From a symbolic point of view, the whole book features the conflict between good and evil, between reason and primary brutal passions such as savageness and lust for blood.
evp	good-looking	adjective	1	A2	If someone is good-looking, they have an attractive face.	He's very good-looking.	The teacher is a very young and good-looking woman.
evp	goodness	noun	1	C2	the quality of being good	She believes in the goodness of human nature.	Soon after their marriage, Kinga gained a reputation for being a saint, for her virginity, modesty and goodness.
evp	goods	noun	1	B2	items which are made to be sold	There is a 25% discount on all electrical goods until the end of the week.	You can buy all goods there without tax.
evp	Google	verb	1	B2	to search for something on the Internet using the Google search engine	We Googled his name and found over 2000 sites.	
evp	gorgeous	adjective	1	B1	very beautiful or pleasant	I met this gorgeous guy at Erik's party.	I met this gorgeous guy Neto, and we are dating.
evp	gossip	noun	1	B2	conversation or reports about other people's private lives that might or might not be true	an interesting piece of gossip	Among them are the increasingly popular reality shows and all the daily news about gossip and scandal.
evp	gossip	verb	1	B2	to talk about other people's private lives	Stop gossiping and get back to work!	First of all, I think they should accept the fact that they are well-known and they should be observed all the time, as we are curious to know what they do and we love to gossip about others.
evp	govern	verb	1	B2	to control and direct the public business of a country, city, group of people, etc.	The United Kingdom is now being governed by the Labour Party.	He governed this area in medieval times.
evp	government	noun	1	B1	the group of people who officially control a country	The government has recently cut taxes.	It talk]e about the anti-violen[ce] programs funded by the government.
evp	government	noun	2	B2	the method or process of governing a country	a new style of government	
evp	grab	verb	1	B1	to take hold of something or someone suddenly	A mugger grabbed her handbag as she was walking across the park.	I quickly hung up and grabbed clothes and my cell phone.
evp	grab	verb	2	B2	to get something quickly	Let’s grab a sandwich before we leave.	We grab a burger on our way to work and a milkshake on our way back home.
evp	grab	verb	3	C1	to take an opportunity quickly and with enthusiasm	I'd grab the opportunity to travel.	I do admit that I could be more sociable and could grab the opportunity and meet many of my neighbors.
evp	grab	verb	4	C1	to attract someone's attention	The advertisement is designed to grab people's attention.	We have to find the books that best grab the reader's attention.
evp	grace	noun	1	C1	the quality of moving in a smooth, relaxed, and attractive way	She moved with grace and elegance.	As with the sport I mentioned before, it also has the grace and elegance of a dancer and the technique, of course, of a skater.
evp	grace	noun	2	C2	the quality of being pleasantly polite	He had the grace to apologize for his mistake the next day.	
evp	grace	verb	1	C2	When a person or object graces a place or thing, they make it more attractive.	Her face has graced the covers of magazines across the world.	The cover is graced with the flower after which it is named, an enormous, virgin white magnolia.
evp	graceful	adjective	1	C1	moving in a smooth, relaxed, and attractive way, or having a smooth, attractive shape	graceful movements	One of the reasons for its popularity is that Hebe was a famous singer years ago, so her fans are the audience of her show. She is graceful, talented, impartial and spontaneous.
evp	graceful	adjective	2	C2	behaving in a polite and pleasant way	She accepted his criticism in a very graceful manner.	I believe that people who have civil and graceful manners and who refrain from being too assertive end up being more successful and powerful than those who try to exert authority at any given moment.
evp	grade	noun	1	A2	a school class or group of classes in which all the children are of a similar age or ability	Jackie is in the sixth grade.	Everybody from school was there, 5th, 6th, 7th, 8th grades, teachers and some friends from Cultura Inglesa.
evp	grade	noun	2	B1	a number or letter that shows how good someone's work or performance is	Steve never studies, but he always gets good grades.	I was really surprised when I read this mail. I passed with very good grades.
evp	grade	noun	3	B2	a level of quality, size, importance, etc.	I applied for a position a grade higher than my current job.	The higher the proficiency grade of an any particular sportsman or sportswoman is, the better he or she is going to be paid.
evp	grade	verb	1	C1	to separate people or things into different levels of quality, size, importance, etc.	The fruit is washed and then graded by size.	Our members graded everything on a scale from 1 to 5, with 1 being very poor, and 5 being excellent.
evp	grade	verb	2	C1	to give a score to a student's piece of work	to grade papers	As to language classes I should grade them as adequate.
evp	gradual	adjective	1	B2	happening slowly over a period of time	a gradual change/improvement	There was a gradual rise in 1992.
evp	gradually	adverb	1	B2	slowly over a period of time or a distance	She gradually began to realize that he wasn't telling her the truth.	Books will gradually disappear, and instead we will read all the things we want o] our computer.
evp	graduate	noun	1	A2	a person who has successfully completed studies at a school or received a degree from a college or university	high-school graduates	
evp	graduate	verb	1	B2	to successfully complete studies at a school, or to complete a degree at a college or university	After he graduated high school, he joined the army.	You know I graduated from high school last month.
evp	graduation	noun	1	B1	a ceremony at which students are given a certificate stating a course of study has been successfully completed or a degree has been awarded	Ann decided not to go to graduation.	I want to buy my dress for the graduation.
evp	graduation	noun	2	B1	the successful completion of a course of study and awarding of a degree or certificate	high-school graduation	Her house was close to my house. That was one of reasons why we still kept in touch after graduation. (587306; First Certificate in English; Japan; B2 VANTAGE; 1993;
evp	grain	noun	1	C2	a seed or seeds from types of grass that are eaten as food	grains of rice	One solution is to invent some kind of medicine, little pieces like a grain of rice, which feed a person, i.e., by just eating one piece, the person won't need to eat any]thin else for the rest of the day.
evp	grain	noun	2	C2	a very small piece of something	a grain of sand/sugar	She smiled again, absentmindedly, and wiped away a grain of dust from the lid of the piano.
evp	grain	noun	3	C2	a very small amount of a quality	There isn't a grain of truth in her story.	In my humble opinion, both these views contain a grain of truth, and at the same time they are fundamentally wrong.
evp	grain	noun	4	C2	If something goes against the grain, it is something you would not normally do.	It goes against the grain to throw all this food away.	She tries to dodge George because she is afraid of admitting the fact that she loves him. It simply goes against the grain.
evp	gram	noun	1	A2	a unit of mass equal to 0.001 kilograms	Measure out 200 grams of butter.	
evp	grammar	noun	1	A2	the way words combine and change their form and position in a sentence, or the rules or study of this	This course will cover basic English grammar.	You can learn grammar and vocabulary with this book.
evp	grammatical	adjective	1	C2	relating to grammar, or obeying the rules of grammar	grammatical rules	It was strange, because in the text there were some grammatical errors.
evp	grand	adjective	1	C1	very large and special	a grand hotel	Do you want to live in a grand mansion, an expensive flat or even a castle?
evp	grandchild	noun	1	A2	the child of a person's son or daughter	They spend a lot of time with their grandchildren.	My grandchildren will wear a fish-like suit 100 years from now.
evp	granddad	noun	1	A2	grandfather	Isn't that your granddad over there?	When I arrived, my granddad was waiting for me.
evp	granddaughter	noun	1	A2	the daughter of a person's son or daughter		I will probably offer it to my daughter or my grand-daughter later on!
evp	grandfather	noun	1	A2	the father of a person's mother or father	My grandfather died before I was born.	It is important because it was from my grandfather.
evp	grandma	noun	1	A2	grandmother	My grandma is a very good cook.	On Sunday I have to go to my grandma's house.
evp	grandmother	noun	1	A2	the mother of a person's father or mother	My grandmother lives in Argentina.	My 4 brothers, dad, grandmother, sister and my friends were there.
evp	grandpa	noun	1	A2	grandfather	I usually see my grandpa twice a week.	My grandpa bought the book for me.
evp	grandparent	noun	1	A2	the father or mother of a person's father or mother	We can learn a lot from our grandparents.	I invited my grandparents, friends, aunt and uncles.
evp	grandson	noun	1	A2	the son of a person's son or daughter	Nicholas was her first grandson.	Francisco's sons and grandsons came to meet us at Havana Airport and then we had lunch together.
evp	granny	noun	1	A2	grandmother	Our granny used to tell us funny stories.	That watch was very important, because my granny gave it to me before she died.
evp	grant	noun	1	B2	an amount of money provided by a government or organization for a special purpose	a student/research grant	I'd like to know if I have to pay for my ticket (Valencia-Kent) or if there]' some kind of grant that I could apply for.
evp	grant	verb	1	B2	to give or allow someone something, usually in an official way	He was granted asylum.	He came to the USA in 1990 and was granted a permanent resident status.
evp	grant	verb	2	B2	to not show that you are grateful for someone or something, and forget that you are lucky to have them	Most of us take our freedom for granted.	So don't take the telephone for granted, but keep in mind that our modern way of life is mainly due to its invention.
evp	grant	verb	3	B2	to believe that something is true without checking or thinking about it	I took it for granted that we'd be invited to the wedding.	I have taken it for granted that you will arrive for dinner.
evp	grape	noun	1	A2	a small round purple or pale green fruit that you can eat or make into wine	a bunch of grapes	In the countryside there many grapes and beautiful wineries, that is why my country has great wine.
evp	graph	noun	1	B2	a picture with measurements marked on it as lines or curves, used to compare different things or show the development of something	This graph shows how crime has varied in relationship to unemployment over the last 20 years.	The graph shows the amount of carbon dioxide produced from a range of sources in the UK from 1980 to 2000.
evp	graphics	noun	1	B1	images shown on a computer screen	computer graphics	The film was full of special effects created with the help of computer graphics.
evp	grasp	verb	1	C1	to take hold of something or someone firmly	He grasped my hand enthusiastically.	It would take my heart away to be able to grasp his wrinkled hand and give him a kiss on the cheek of his crimson face, as I would always do when visiting him.
evp	grasp	verb	2	C1	to understand something	I find these math problems difficult to grasp.	Children born into wealth cannot grasp the importance of money, and when they finally leave the shelter of their parents' home, they are completely unable to restrict their spending and save money.
evp	grasp	verb	3	C2	to quickly try to get hold of something	She grasped at the bushes as she fell.	There was half a minute of horror-stricken silence, then a soft moan left her slightly parted lips as she grasped at the wooden door frame for balance.
evp	grasp	noun	1	C2	when you understand something	He has a good grasp of of English grammar.	Computers are an essential part of our modern lives and I am sure I would need to have a good grasp of the Microsoft tools to progress in my career.
evp	grasp	noun	2	C2	when you hold onto someone or something	I tried to pull him out but he slipped from my grasp.	
evp	grasp	noun	3	C2	the ability to obtain or achieve something	Victory is within our grasp.	Although immortality is still beyond our grasp, prolonged life is a well-known fact.
evp	grass	noun	1	A1	a common plant with narrow green leaves that grows close to the ground	I've cut the grass.	This house is bigger than the other one because it has a garden with grass and flowers.
evp	grateful	adjective	1	B1	feeling or showing thanks	I'm really grateful to you for all your help.	I'm grateful to the boys who established the club.
evp	grave	noun	1	B2	a place in the ground where a dead person is buried	an unmarked grave	After a couple of hours they brought her from the hospital and the next day they buried her near her mother's grave.
evp	gray	adjective	1	A1	being a color that is a mixture of black and white	gray clouds	I[t] is so great, it is black with gray details.
evp	gray	adjective	2	C1	cloudy and not bright	a cold, gray morning	If only we could do something about gray rainy days ...
evp	gray	adjective	3	C2	having hair that has changed color to gray	He’s already beginning to turn gray.	Or the mother that keeps a lock of hair from her beautiful baby boy, now aged 43 turning gray and almost bald.
evp	gray	noun	1	A2	the color that is a mixture of black and white	She was dressed in gray.	I am go[ing to use dark gray for the wall and white for the ceiling.
evp	great	adjective	1	A1	very good	We had a great time at the party.	I hope we have a great meal and a lot of fun.
evp	great	adjective	2	A2	large in amount, size or degree	I use my computer a great deal.	It's a great pleasure to give you some advice.
evp	great	adjective	3	B1	extreme	He has great difficulty
walking.	But still, car accidents are a great concern to the Portuguese authorities.
evp	great	adjective	4	B2	important or famous	This is one of Rembrandt's greatest paintings.	Ginny was a keen collector of rare paintings by great artists.
evp	great	adjective	5	B2	very big	I gave her a great big hug.	I will never forget when I was walking on the beach and all of a sudden this great big dog appears from nowhere running after me.
evp	great	adjective	6	B2	a lot	She spends a great deal of her time in Glasgow.	There will be lots of events which you could see and take a great deal of pictures of]
evp	greatly	adverb	1	B2	very much	The higher profits were the result of greatly reduced costs.	I recently went to the music festival and I greatly enjoyed it.
evp	greatness	noun	1	B2	skill and importance	Her greatness as a writer is unquestioned.	So, getting to be rich and famous is more related to achieving greatness in your own field and not necessarily gaining money and becoming the richest person in the world.
evp	greed	noun	1	C1	when you want a lot more food, money, etc., than you need	We were shocked by their greed.	I hate to accept that greed and ambition are the trademarks of our society, but it seems clear to me now.
evp	greedy	adjective	1	B2	wanting a lot more food, money, etc. than you need	greedy, selfish people	He was a greedy and cruel man.
evp	green	adjective	1	A1	being the same color as grass	green vegetables	I'll use purple and green paint.
evp	green	adjective	2	B1	covered with grass or other plants	green spaces	If you wanted to do some outdoor activities, we could go fishing or even go walking through the green fields.
evp	green	adjective	3	B2	relating to nature and protecting the environment	green issues	There is the government party, "Green party", especially in German[y].
evp	green	adjective	4	C2	to wish very much that you had something that another person has	Sam's got a job in the south of France and we're all green with envy!	The more successful players' salary makes the others green with envy.
evp	green	noun	1	A2	the color of grass	dark/light green	I am going to use green for my bedroom.
evp	greet	verb	1	B1	to welcome someone	He greeted me at the door.	We sat down and the teacher arrived. She greeted us and she told us her name.
evp	greet	verb	2	C2	to react to something in a particular way	His story was greeted with shrieks of laughter.	The return of the musician, who was once famous in the world, was greeted with joy.
evp	greeting	noun	1	B1	something friendly or polite that you say or do when you meet or welcome someone	They exchanged greetings before starting the session.	Lucy asked me to pass on greetings to you.
evp	grief	noun	1	B2	great sadness, especially caused by someone's death	Newspapers should not intrude on people's private grief.	However, my grief was still fresh and raw then.
evp	grill	noun	1	B1	a piece of equipment with a frame of metal bars for cooking food, usually over a fire	Put the burgers on the grill.	I recommend meat on the grill [- it is delicious.
evp	grill	verb	1	B1	to cook food on a grill	Grill the fish for two to three minutes on each side.	We were in the garden and we grilled meat.
evp	grilled	adjective	1	A2	cooked on a grill	grilled steak/fish	The grilled fish was delicious and spicy.
evp	grim	adjective	1	C2	worrying and bad	grim news	Sitting back and carefully thinking about all this, I come to the grim conclusion that we grown-ups are just the same!
evp	grim	adjective	2	C2	sad and serious	a grim expression	They gaped at it with surprise, but slowly the grim faces were replaced with smiles and laughter.
evp	grim	adjective	3	C2	A grim place is ugly and unpleasant.	grim industrial regions	This was a particularly gloomy and grim place.
evp	grin	verb	1	C2	to smile a big smile	He grinned at me from the doorway.	He stood up, approached me in his once corduroy trousers, grinned and poked his tongue out at me.
evp	grin	verb	2	C2	to accept an unpleasant or difficult situation because there is nothing you can do to improve it	I hate my job, but I'm just going to have to grin and bear it for a while.	As I couldn't simply get up and go away, I just had to grin and bear it for a little while longer.
evp	grin	noun	1	C2	a big smile	She had a big grin on her face.	No sooner had he entered the restaurant than he was greated with broad grins and friendly hugs.
evp	grip	verb	1	B2	to hold something very tightly	The baby gripped my finger with her tiny hand.	I gripped the steering wheel, fixed my eyes firmly on the road, and bravely drove up to Scotland.
evp	grip	verb	2	C2	When an emotion grips you, you feel it very strongly.	He was gripped by fear.	But when she found out, a cold feeling of shock gripped her.
evp	grip	verb	3	C2	to keep someone's attention completely	This trial has gripped the whole nation.	I was gazing at the stage and was completely gripped by the music.
evp	grip	noun	1	B2	when you hold something tightly	She tightened her grip on my arm.	Then suddenly I lost my grip on the papers and they all dropped to the floor and landed in a great heap.
evp	grip	noun	2	C1	to make an effort to control your emotions and behave more calmly	Stop panicking and get a grip on yourself!	The best thing to do was to talk to people who were not doing the test rather than building up my anxiety. However, I did not do this and it almost resulted in a disaster, but I got a grip on myself and just barely passed.
evp	grip	noun	3	C2	to understand and deal with a problem or situation	It's a difficult subject to come to grips with.	As a result, they are daily faced with tight schedules and they have to come to grips with the demanding work they have to prepare for school.
evp	gripping	adjective	1	C1	If something is gripping, it is so interesting that it holds your attention completely.	a gripping story	"I know why the caged bird sings" is the most gripping read I have ever read.
evp	groan	verb	1	C2	to make a long, low sound such as when expressing pain, unhappiness, etc.	He collapsed, groaning with pain.	He was breathing but he was unconscious; he moaned and groaned, but he did not have any obvious signs of injuries.
evp	groan	noun	1	C2	a long, low sound such as one expressing pain, unhappiness, etc.	I could hear his groans from behind the door.	Afterwards, with a wild groan, he dropped down to the ground.
evp	groceries	noun	1	B1	food and other things you buy in a food store	We usually shop for groceries on Saturday.	My wife and I go shopping on weekends to buy groceries and clothes if we need them.
evp	grocery store	noun	1	A2	a store that sells food and other groceries and goods for the home	I need to stop at the grocery store and pick up a few things on the way home.	
evp	groom	noun	1	B1	a man who is getting married	The bride and groom were posing for pictures.	[In] my village, the bridge and the groom stay on their first night at the groom's parents' house.
evp	gross	adjective	1	C1	A gross amount of money has not had taxes or other costs taken from it.	gross earnings/profit	Considering that our business is booming, we suggest investing a certain amount of money in the above-mentioned technical devices in order to achieve the financial target, which is to increase our gross profit by 10%.
evp	gross	adjective	2	C1	very serious or unacceptable	gross misconduct	Secondly, in the second paragraph, two gross mistakes were made.
evp	gross	adjective	3	C2	very unpleasant	Those bugs are really gross.	She spit out the food saying it was gross then tore the tablecloth apart, throwing all the dishes on the floor, and started yelling at him that he was a useless thing that was a waste of space.
evp	the ground floor	noun	1	B1	the floor of a building that is at the same level as the ground outside	My office is on the ground floor.	We followed them to a new club in Siena. It is on the ground floor of an old building.
evp	group	noun	1	A1	a number of people or things that are together in one place or are connected	I'm meeting a group of friends for dinner tonight.	All our group of friends were there.
evp	group	noun	2	A1	a number of people who play music together, especially pop music	a pop/rock group	I like reggae and ska music music, especially NSK, a very good ska group.
evp	group	verb	1	C1	to form a group or put people or things into a group or groups	The children are grouped according to their ability.	I would like to suggest that we should be grouped according to the level of our English proficiency on the first day of the semester.
evp	grow	verb	1	A2	to develop and become bigger or taller as time passes	Children grow so quickly.	I['ve] grown and the dress is too tight for me.
evp	grow	verb	2	A2	If a plant grows, or you grow it, it develops from a seed to a full plant.	Tomatoes grow well in full sun.	I will grow many new trees.
evp	grow	verb	3	B1	to increase	The number of people living alone grows each year.	In Rio, violence is growing very fast, so if we're planning to spend the holiday i] the city we'll have to take care.
evp	grow	verb	4	B1	If your hair or nails grow, or if you grow them, they get longer.	Are you growing a beard?	I've lost some weight and I've grown a beard.
evp	grow	verb	5	B2	to gradually become tired/old/calm, etc.	Our bodies change as we grow older.	They went to the field and, relaxing on the grass, spoke about their life without each other. Soft blue evening came and it was growing dark.
evp	grow	verb	6	A2	to gradually become an adult	I grew up in Scotland.	I have grown up eating this kind of food.
evp	growing	adjective	1	B2	increasing in size or quantity	There is a growing awareness of the seriousness of this disease.	One big change in the last ten years is definitely the growing interest in more natural and healthy food.
evp	grown-up	noun	1	B2	an adult, used especially when talking to children	Ask a grown-up to cut the shape out for you.	If I were a grown-up I would like to have a big dog.
evp	grown-up	adjective	1	B2	If you say that someone is grown-up, you mean that they are an adult or that they behave in a responsible way.	She has two grown-up children who work in the family business.	Now, as a grown-up person, I am trying to evaluate such an upbringing objectively.
evp	growth	noun	1	B2	when something grows, increases or develops	A balanced diet is essential for healthy growth.	The huge growth of technology has brought lots of good aspects to my life, like the facility to be informed about everything that is happening around the world.
evp	grumpy	adjective	1	C1	easily annoyed and often complaining	a grumpy old man	Secondly, our coach driver was a grumpy, unpleasant man who was not even polite enough to answer our questions.
evp	guarantee	verb	1	B2	to promise or make sure that something is true or will happen	Every child is guaranteed a place at a public school.	I can guarantee you won't be disappointed if you let me do the job.
evp	guarantee	noun	1	B2	a written promise made by a company to repair one of its products or give you a new one if it has a fault	a money-back guarantee	And you couldn't take it back because it is not under guarantee.
evp	guarantee	noun	2	C2	a promise that something will be done or will happen	There's no guarantee that it actually works.	They are the ones who are hit most by any economic deterioration or crisis, and there is no guarantee that they will not end up living in the streets.
evp	guard	noun	1	B1	someone whose job is to protect a person, place or thing from danger or attack, or to prevent a person such as a criminal from escaping	a security guard	I saw two security guards, who opened the door for me and welcomed me inside.
evp	guard	noun	2	C2	to surprise someone by doing something when they are not ready to deal with it	The journalist caught him off guard and he admitted to lying.	It caught me off guard. This grotesque image shattered the comfort of a languid Sunday afternoon and for a few seconds hurled me into a world of pain.
evp	guard	noun	3	C2	to be ready to deal with something difficult that might happen	Companies were warned to be on their guard for suspicious packages.	However, we should be on guard, so as not to let the things escape our control.
evp	guard	noun	4	C2	to relax when you should be careful or ready to deal with something	He's worried that if he lets his guard down someone may take advantage of him.	That of course will go against anything Stevens has ever done and he never lets his guard down.
evp	guard	verb	1	B2	to protect someone or something from being attacked or stolen	Soldiers guard the main doors of the embassy.	I guess it was that thrill that actually made me anxious to know what really was going on inside the dodgy-looking old house guarded by a man with an unfriendly hound.
evp	guard	verb	2	B2	to watch someone and make certain they do not escape from a place	Five prison officers guarded the prisoners.	No one was guarding him.
evp	guest	noun	1	A2	someone who comes to visit you in your home, at a party, etc.	We've got some guests coming this weekend.	There were fifty guests at my party.
evp	guest	noun	2	A2	a person who is staying in a hotel	We would like to remind all our guests to leave their keys at reception before they depart.	And if you are a guest of the hotel, they'll give you a beautiful flower.
evp	guest	noun	3	B2	a person, such as an entertainer, who has been invited to appear on a television or radio program or in a performance	Our guest tonight is Robert de Niro.	Of course a bear shouldn't be a guest o] a TV show, it's not in his nature.
evp	guidance	noun	1	B2	help or advice	spiritual/expert guidance	I dream of being Lord Krishna's devotee but I need professional guidance.
evp	guide	noun	1	A2	someone whose job is to show interesting places to visitors, or to help people get somewhere	a tour guide	Yesterday I visited the "White House" and the guide was very friendly.
evp	guide	noun	2	B1	a book that gives information about something or tells you how to do something	a hotel/restaurant guide	I found that some of the current information in the guide is a little bit old.
evp	guide	verb	1	B1	to help someone visit a place or go somewhere	Someone offered to guide us through the jungle.	I had to look after the members of the public and [I] guided them to their seats.
evp	guidebook	noun	1	A2	a book that gives visitors information about a particular place	a guidebook to/about Venice	The rest of the holiday I'll dedicate to tourism with my guidebook, getting to know the best places on the island.
evp	guideline	noun	1	C1	advice about how to do something	government guidelines	To avoid being injured, you must follow all the guidelines provided by your employer.
evp	guilt	noun	1	B2	a feeling of shame or unhappiness when you have done something wrong	He suffered such feelings of guilt over leaving his children.	Her brother had hesitated before telling her the truth, but he proved that he really trusted his sister by confessing his guilt to her.
evp	guilt	noun	2	B2	the fact of having committed a crime	Both suspects admitted their guilt to the police.	
evp	guilty	adjective	1	B1	feeling guilt	She was so upset about what I'd said and I felt so guilty.	I've got a guilty conscience because I forgot to say goodbye.
evp	guilty	adjective	2	B2	responsible for breaking a law	The jury found her guilty.	After the trial, where the jury found him guilty, he was sent to prison for a long time.
evp	guitar	noun	1	A1	a musical instrument with six strings and a long neck which is usually made of wood, and which is played by pulling or hitting the strings with the fingers	an acoustic/electric guitar	I can play the guitar quite well.
evp	guitarist	noun	1	B1	someone who plays the guitar, especially as their job	The lead guitarist in the band was excellent.	Not only did he want to be a doctor, but he was also a great guitarist.
evp	gulf	noun	1	B2	an area of sea surrounded on three sides by land	the Gulf of Mexico/the Gulf Coast	Apart the view of the gulf, Vesuvio, etc., the best thing of Napoli is the nightlife.
evp	gulf	noun	2	C2	an important difference between the opinions or situations of two groups of people	There is a growing gulf between the rich and the poor.	While Mrs. Kingshaw simplifies and trivializes her son's fears, she increases the gulf between them.
evp	gum	noun	1	B2	the hard, pink part inside your mouth that your teeth grow out of	Protect your teeth and gums by visiting your dentist regularly.	
evp	gum	noun	2	B2	a sweet substance that you chew but do not swallow	a stick of gum	
evp	gun	noun	1	B1	a weapon that you fire bullets out of	You could hear the noise of guns firing in the distance.	He went downstairs and picked up his father's gun.
evp	guts	noun	1	B2	the bravery and determination that is needed to do something difficult or unpleasant	It took guts to stand up and tell the boss how she felt.	They did not expect that the people in this vicinity would actually have the guts to retaliate!
evp	guts	noun	2	C2	the organs inside a person's or animal's body	Its guts were spilled all over the road.	The walls were covered in blood and their guts were spilled all over the place.
evp	guy	noun	1	A2	a man	Do you mean the guy with the blond hair and glasses?	Last night, I met a wonderful guy!
evp	guy	noun	2	B1	used when you are talking to or about two or more people	Come on, you guys, let's go home.	Hey guys! I'm just writing to thank you for the great times we had last weekend and to say you're awesome.
evp	gym	noun	1	A2	a building or room with equipment for doing exercise	Nick goes to the gym three times a week.	We went to a gym near my house.
evp	gym	noun	2	A2	a school class in which children learn to exercise and play sports	We have gym on Friday afternoons.	You can do gym, aqua, dance, boxing, squash, and tennis.
evp	gymnastic	adjective	1	B2	involving gymnastics	a gymnastic display	My friend likes to go swimming every morning. I prefer to do gymnastic exercises in a separate room every day.
evp	gymnastics	noun	1	B1	a sport in which you do physical exercises on the floor and on different pieces of equipment, often in competitions	Let's watch the gymnastics on TV.	Every Tuesday and Thursday you can do sports like basketball, football or also gymnastics.
evp	habit	noun	1	B1	something that you do often and regularly, almost without knowing that you are doing it	healthy eating habits	In your last letter you asked me about my shopping habits and my clothes.
evp	habit	noun	2	B2	something that you often do that is bad for you or is annoying	He has some really annoying/nasty habits.	With more free time and more money to spend than ever, shopping is a great activity, but when this creates bad habits such as overspending, it could lead to serious problems.
evp	habitat	noun	1	C1	the natural environment of an animal or plant	We want to see lions in their natural habitat.	These snakes and wild cats are able to live in the wild, as the forests in Denmark are like their natural habitat.
evp	hail	noun	1	C2	hard balls of ice that fall from the sky like rain	Hail the size of golf balls dented my car in the storm.	In the past, a very cold winter and hail would destroy the crops and kill hundreds of families; and, moreover, people had little protection against the attacks of wild animals.
evp	hail	verb	1	C2	If it hails, small, hard pieces of frozen rain fall from the sky.	It hailed for a few minutes this morning.	
evp	hail	verb	2	C2	to call or wave to someone to get their attention	You wait here while I hail a cab.	If you see a car or a bus or some other vehicle, just hail them and ask for help.
evp	hail	verb	3	C2	to publicly praise or show approval for someone or something	Heppner has been hailed as one of the finest tenors in the operatic world today.	But, fortunately, these Olympic Games in 2004 were hailed as a success by everyone.
evp	hair	noun	1	A1	the thin, thread-like parts that grow on your head	curly/straight hair	She has long and dark hair, she has a big eyes, she is a serious girl.
evp	hair	noun	2	B2	one or more of the thin thread-like parts that grow on a person's or animal's skin	He's starting to get a few gray hairs now.	Then he appeared: a fat] middle-aged man with only a few hairs on his head.
evp	hair	noun	3	C2	to be very relaxed and enjoy yourself a lot	I'd love to see Clare let her hair down for once.	Thrace hosts every year, festivals and carnivals where all the family can let their hair down and have fun.
evp	haircut	noun	1	B1	when someone cuts your hair, or the style in which it has been cut	to get a haircut	You two have the same haircut, the same complexion but not the same attitude, which is good.
evp	hairdresser	noun	1	B1	a person who cuts people's hair and puts it into a style	Who's your hairdresser?	I would like to suggest a new time to meet you on Tuesday because I've got a hairdresser appointment at ten a.m.
evp	hair dryer	noun	1	B1	a piece of electrical equipment for drying your hair with hot air	Did you pack a hair dryer?	The comfortable rooms you are offering, do they have showers, hair dryers, and such facilities?
evp	hairstylist	noun	1	B1	a person who cuts people's hair and puts it into a style	Her hairstylist gave her a short cut that's easy to care for.	All the women before the wedding usually go to the hairstylist.
evp	half-price	adjective	1	A2	costing half the usual price	I got half-price tickets for the show tonight.	It will cost [$]215, which is almost half-price.
evp	half price	adverb	1	A2	for half the usual price	If you pay one full fare, the second person can travel at half price.	I want to sell my "English Grammar" book, it's a great book, simple to read, not very used, just the right book for you, and I sell it at less than half price; INCREDIBLE!!
evp	hall	noun	1	A2	a large room or building where meetings, concerts, and other events happen	Her dream is to perform at Carnegie Hall.	I can make the concert hall look more attractive.
evp	hall	noun	2	A2	a room or passage in a building that leads to other rooms	an entrance hall	I think I left it in the hall.
evp	ham	noun	1	A2	meat from a pig's back or upper leg	a ham sandwich	Every day for breakfast we have bread with ham.
evp	hammer	noun	1	B2	a tool with a heavy, metal part at the top that you use to hit nails into something	You will need a hammer and some nails.	I gave her tools because I did not know a hammer from a screwdriver and she cleaned four plugs.
evp	hand	noun	1	A1	the part of your body on the end of your arm that has fingers and a thumb	Take your hands out of your pockets!	Hi Sabrina The party was good. I forgot my phone in your house - I had it in my pocket, then it was in my hand and then I put it on a table in the kitchen.
evp	hand	noun	2	B1	some help, especially to do something practical	Could you give me a hand with these suitcases?	She asked me to give her a hand.
evp	hand	noun	3	B1	done or made by a person instead of a machine	This sweater has to be washed by hand.	I used to remember my mother washing our clothes by hand, but for me it is just a matter of throwing the clothes into the washing machine and pressing a few buttons.
evp	hand	noun	4	B2	used when you are comparing two different ideas or opinions	On the one hand, computer games develop many skills, but on the other, they mean kids don't get enough exercise.	On the one hand, I know from my experience that it's much easier in life if you know more about everything, but on the other hand, I'd say that if someone had given me a chance (when I was kid) to study what I enjoyed, probably I'd have more possibility to develop my skills.
evp	hand	noun	5	B2	holding each other's hand	The children walked hand in hand.	Hand in hand they got off the train and she felt that her decision to leave was the best decision she had ever made in her life.
evp	hand	noun	6	C1	If two things go hand in hand, they exist together and are connected with each other.	Prosperity goes hand in hand with investment.	Traffic and pollution go hand in hand.
evp	hand	noun	7	C1	near in time or space	Teachers are always close at hand to give help to any child who needs it.	I haven't had any lectures in English, but now and then there are lectures in English at the University so you need to understand the spoken language with no dictionary at hand.
evp	hand	noun	8	C1	to be in someone's control or care	The matter is now in the hands of my lawyer.	The future of our country is in the hands of these two men who are so different and who can't stand each other.
evp	hand	noun	9	C1	being cared for or dealt with by someone skilled	The project is in safe hands - Jan has lots of experience.	He has also been trained as a lifeguard so the residents of your hotel would probably be in safe hands.
evp	hand	noun	10	C2	without using a weapon or tool	He broke the log in two with his bare hands!	I learned how to milk a cow, with my bare hands.
evp	hand	noun	11	C2	near to someone or something, and ready to help or be used when necessary	Extra supplies will be on hand, in case they are needed.	From their point of view, they can always have you on hand whenever they need help, which is the most important part in their formative years.
evp	hand	noun	12	C2	to find something	Do you know where I can lay my hands on a pair of scissors?	And as long as we remain unable to distinguish between needs and desires, amassing material possessions to gratify our fleeting caprices or alleviate our frustrations, we are bound to be trapped in the illusion that only by laying our hands on the desired goods can we obtain happiness and peace of mind.
evp	hand	noun	13	C2	being worked on or dealt with now	Don't worry – we have the situation in hand.	Miss Kenton keeps asking Stevens whether everything is in hand and whether her help is required.
evp	hand	noun	14	C2	to be in a stronger position than someone else so that you control a situation	Government troops are gradually gaining the upper hand over the rebels.	Humans vs. machines - who has the upper hand?
evp	hand	noun	15	C2	to become difficult to control	It was the end of week and the children were getting a little out of hand.	A few solutions can prevent this problem from getting out of hand.
evp	hand	noun	16	C2	permission to make your own decisions about how you want to do something	The students were given a free hand as far as designing their projects was concerned.	But unlike my parents, I wouldn't give my children a free hand in solving their problems.
evp	hand	noun	17	C2	to be very busy	Shelley has her hands full with three kids under 5.	This very fact made my father work like a slave, as he was the only breadwinner at home, my mother having her hands full with us four.
evp	hand	noun	18	C2	to do something illegal in order to punish someone because you know that the law will not punish that person	The police did nothing about the thefts, so they took the law into their own hands.	Therefore, locals are scared to death, leading to their taking the law into their own hands.
evp	hand	verb	1	B1	to give someone something	She handed him the letter.	Maybe you could hand me a paper with several questions I can answer, thus I would cover the work I miss.
evp	hand	verb	2	C2	used when you want to show that you admire someone	You have to hand it to Mick, he's done a good job on that kitchen.	She had saved the business, and of course everybody knew it. Begrudgingly they'd had to hand it to her.
evp	hand	verb	3	C2	to pass possessions or traditions from older people to younger ones	a custom handed down through the generations	The ring is of great significance to me as it was handed down from generation to generation, and I was the lucky one, who inherited it from my grandmother.
evp	hand	verb	4	B1	to give a piece of written work to a teacher	Have you handed in your homework yet?	
evp	hand	verb	5	B1	to give something to each person in a group or place	The teacher asked her to hand out the worksheets.	I handed out refreshments to the pop group's members during breaks - my friends were so jealous of me!
evp	hand	verb	6	B2	to give someone or something to someone else	The hijacker was handed over to the French police.	In the end, we handed them over to the police and we were rewarded.
evp	handball	noun	1	A2	a game in which players hit a small hard rubber ball against a wall with their hands	We played handball yesterday.	Last Saturday was my party, it was wonderful. I played handball in the afternoon, but in the evening I danced.
evp	handheld	adjective	1	C1	describes something that is designed to be held and used easily with one or two hands	a handheld camera/computer/device	Soon you will be able to access all this information through your mobile or handheld device.
evp	handkerchief	noun	1	B1	a small piece of cloth or soft paper that you use to dry your eyes or nose	She dabbed her eyes with a handkerchief.	We are going to see a dramatic film, Era mio padre, so don't forget your handkerchief.
evp	handle	verb	1	B1	to deal with something	I thought he handled the problem/situation very well.	He couldn't handle it and started to run in the rain, crying, thinking.
evp	handle	verb	2	C2	to touch, hold, or pick up something	You must wash your hands before handling food.	In India, people tend to handle food with their hands, I have been told most people eat without cutlery.
evp	handle	noun	1	B2	the part of something that you use to hold it or open it	a door handle	I saw my chair, my carpet... and my door handle!...
evp	handout	noun	1	B2	a copy of a document that is given to all the people in a class or meeting	On page two of your handout you will find a list of the books that I have referred to during the lecture.	During our course, I made an effort to follow the lectures, and,] for instance, to check the unknown vocabulary which appeared in handouts.
evp	handsome	adjective	1	B1	A handsome man is attractive.	She's hoping that she'll meet a tall, dark, handsome stranger.	The main actor is very handsome too.
evp	handsome	adjective	2	C2	a large amount of money	a handsome salary	Secondly, from an economic stand-point, it is generally believed that international sports events only serve as a means for TV companies to monopolize entertainment while turning a handsome profit.
evp	handwriting	noun	1	B1	the way that someone forms the letters when they write with a pen or pencil	His handwriting is impossible to read.	I have pretty bad handwriting as you know from my letters, and with a computer and a printer I can avoid others who read my letters from being put off by my handwriting.
evp	handy	adjective	1	C2	useful or easy to use	a handy container/tool	Such a possession may be something they use all the time, like a fountain pen for a writer, or a handy camera for a photographer, and they have become "dependent" on them.
evp	handy	adjective	2	C2	to be useful at some time in the future	Don't throw those jars away - they might come in handy.	There's a washer and a dryer in the basement. I'm sure they'll come in handy with your new bundle of joy and the rest of your lovely bunch.
evp	hang	verb	1	B1	to fasten or support something at the top leaving the other parts free to move, or to be held in this way	A heavy gold necklace hung around her neck.	She kept it in a tiny red bag which hung around her neck like a necklace.
evp	hang	verb	2	B2	to kill someone by dropping them with a rope tied around their neck, or to die in this way	He was found guilty and hanged later that year.	Their childhood was rather unhappy because their father was convicted of murder and hanged.
evp	hang	verb	3	C2	to stay in the air for a long time	Smoke from the campfires hung in the air.	The smog hangs over the cities like a deadly cloud, resulting in many health problems like pulmonary diseases and cancer.
evp	hang	verb	4	C2	If something is or hangs in the balance, nobody knows if it will continue to exist in the future or what will happen to it.	The game hung in the balance until the last seconds.	It is my firm belief, that unless we make a step towards the development of our town, its future will hang in the balance and we will ultimately pay the price of our short sightedness.
evp	hang	verb	5	B1	to spend time somewhere, usually doing very little	There's nowhere for teenagers to go so they just hang around on street corners.	It was great because the whole time I was able to ride my skateboard and hang around with my friends, and I had a lot of fun.
evp	hang	verb	6	B1	to wait for a short time	Hang on a minute while I see if Steve can come to the phone.	If I were you, I would take my job with more calm and I wouldn't be nervous when talking on the telephone, hanging on waiting for an answer.
evp	hang	verb	7	B1	to spend a lot of time in a place or with someone	We like hanging out at the mall.	For example, when I hang out with my friends, I love wearing a skirt.
evp	hang	verb	8	B1	to finish a conversation on the telephone	She said goodbye and hung up.	Then he hung up immediately.
evp	hang	verb	9	B1	to put something, especially a piece of clothing, somewhere where it can hang	You can hang up your jacket over there.	The first problem I would like to mention is what everybody in our class knows: we have to hang up more signs, which show the way to the reception, because visitors and new students have lots of problems finding it.
evp	hang	noun	1	C2	to learn how to do something, especially if it is not obvious or simple	I've never used one of these before. - Don't worry, you'll soon get the hang of it.	It was quite hard to get the hang of it, as I didn't have any knowledge of English.
evp	happen	verb	1	A2	If an event or situation happens, it exists or starts to be done, usually by chance.	Were you there when the accident happened?	I think it happened in his bedroom because I saw some sports clothes and we know he plays basketball.
evp	happen	verb	2	A2	to be the result of an action, situation, or event that someone or something experiences	Did you hear what happened to us last night?	In most Czech families dinner is the only meal when everybody eats together and talks about everything t]ha happened to them during that day.
evp	happen	verb	3	C1	to do something by chance	If you happen to see Peter, say "hi" for me.	I am certainly more confident and can understand whatever I happen to read in English, which is of course of the utmost importance for my work in this company.
evp	happen	verb	4	C1	something that you say in order to introduce a surprising fact	As it happens, her birthday is the day after mine.	As it happens, I am currently looking for a computer course for myself and I would like to join one of your courses.
evp	happily	adverb	1	B1	in a happy way	He was happily married with two young children.	Now we are happily married and I cannot stop thinking what would have happened if I had thrown away the e-mail...?
evp	happily	adverb	2	B2	in a way that is very willing	I'd happily offer to help him if I thought it would make any difference.	I think young people would happily accept it.
evp	happily	adverb	3	C1	having a good or lucky result	Happily, the operation was a complete success.	Happily, I had met a friend who could take me to school!
evp	happiness	noun	1	B1	the feeling of being happy	It was only later in life that she found happiness and peace of mind.	I wish you happiness, you deserve it.
evp	happy	adjective	1	A1	feeling, showing, or causing pleasure	She looks so/very happy.	I am very happy that I can go to college every day and I can see my friends every day.
evp	happy	adjective	2	A1	something friendly that you say to someone on a special day or holiday	Happy anniversary, darling!	Happy Halloween!
evp	happy	adjective	3	A2	willing to do something	I'd be very happy to help, if you need a hand.	I would be very happy to help you with the concert.
evp	happy	adjective	4	A2	satisfied and not worried	Are you happy with the grades you got this semester?	I am very happy with my computer.
evp	harassment	noun	1	C1	behavior that annoys or upsets someone	sexual harassment	However, they may be underpaid in comparison to men carrying out the same tasks, are seldom promoted - although they may be better qualified - and sometimes have to endure sexual harassment by their bosses.
evp	harbor	noun	1	B1	an area of water next to the coast, often protected from the sea by a thick wall, where ships and boats can shelter	Our hotel room overlooked a pretty little fishing harbor.	I have a large room with a balcony from where I see the harbor and the beach.
evp	hard	adjective	1	A1	difficult to understand or do	There were some really hard questions on the test.	I don't like grammar. English grammar is hard for me.
evp	hard	adjective	2	A2	firm and stiff, and not easy to press or bend	a hard surface	We have to bring with us three pencils, two hard pencils and one soft.
evp	hard	adjective	3	B1	needing or using a lot of physical or mental effort	Go on - give it a good hard push!	It's the perfect place to stay and relax after a week of hard work.
evp	hard	adjective	4	B2	to criticize someone too much, or to treat them unfairly	Don't be too hard on him - he's new to the job.	That's why I was a little hard on you at first.
evp	hard	adjective	5	C1	full of problems and difficult to deal with	My grandparents had a very hard life.	It was a really hard time for all of us, but it passed and, I hope, will never come again.
evp	hard	adjective	6	C2	to learn something by experiencing a lot of problems or difficulty	He doesn’t want to take my advice, so I guess he’ll have to learn the hard way.	If you don't know the past, you're liable to live through it again as instead of deriving the lessons from someone else's experiences, you'll have to learn them the hard way, by trial and error.
evp	hard	adjective	7	C2	to make someone unhappy by causing them problems	Don’t be too hard on her – she’s just learning the job.	Also it was hard on our family only seeing my father late at night being tired or for a weekend, if he was not on a business-trip.
evp	hard	adjective	8	C2	to criticize someone and make them feel guilty about something they have done	His boss has been giving him a hard time.	I'm not saying that I wasn't normal or anything, I just gave my family a hard time sometimes.
evp	hard	adjective	9	C2	anger, unhappiness, or lack of trust	I hope you don't have any hard feelings.	There were no hard feelings anymore.
evp	hard	adverb	1	A1	with a lot of physical or mental effort	She tried very hard but she wasn't quite fast enough.	I don't like to work very hard and very late in the classroom and I don't like computers.
evp	hard	adverb	2	B1	with a lot of force	It's been raining hard all day.	It was a cloudy day, the wind was blowing hard, and the city was quiet.
evp	hard drive	noun	1	B2	the part inside a computer that is not removed and that stores very large amounts of information	A virus damaged my hard drive.	As you know, computer prices are getting lower every day and technology is growing so fast so I thought that if I waited more and began saving money, I could buy a new computer with new stuff (better chip, hard drive etc.) in six months time.
evp	hardly	adverb	1	B1	almost not, or only a very small amount	We hardly ever go to concerts.	I've hardly ever called them since I came to this country to study English.
evp	hardly	adverb	2	B2	certainly not	You can hardly expect me to wait around all day for you to get ready.	And then, although you have allowed me to use all your stuff, I hardly think I can touch your computer and the CD player.
evp	hardship	noun	1	C1	a problem or situation that makes you suffer a lot, especially because you are very poor	They have suffered years of financial hardship.	However, I have to say that this plan would cause much inconvenience and hardship for our local residents.
evp	hardware	noun	1	B1	the physical and electronic parts of a computer, rather than the programs	We need to include new hardware in our budget.	Computer technology keeps improving all the time and consumers like me and you definitely have to pay our money to keep our personal computer up to date and able to work with new computer software that requires better and better performance of computer hardware.
evp	hard-working	adjective	1	B2	doing a job seriously and with a lot of effort	She's a very hard-working student.	I think I am suitable for the job because, apart from all the above, I am hard-working, well-educated and imaginative.
evp	harm	verb	1	B2	to hurt someone or damage something	Thankfully, no one was harmed in the accident.	But in those places animals were harmed and died easily.
evp	harm	noun	1	B2	hurt or damage	Alan would never do anyone any harm.	It is true that the car does us harm.
evp	harm	noun	2	C1	used to say that something is not a bad thing to do and could possibly have a good effect	I suppose there's no harm in trying.	There is no lack of good language schools and there is no harm in trying another one the next time.
evp	harmful	adjective	1	B2	causing harm	This group of chemicals is known to be harmful to people with asthma.	In addition, books are not harmful to our health as computers sometimes are.
evp	harmless	adjective	1	B2	not able or not likely to cause harm	Most mushrooms are completely/totally harmless, but some are poisonous.	In conclusion, cars are not as harmless as they look so we must stop using them so much.
evp	harmless	adjective	2	C2	not likely to shock or upset people or to cause problems	Their jokes seemed harmless enough.	He seemed harmless enough so I decided to take a nap. Suddenly I heard a strange noise and I was terrified to hear his loud voice booming in my ear.
evp	harmony	noun	1	B2	when people are peaceful and agree with each other, or when different things seem right or suitable together	living together in peace and harmony	I would like to think my children are going to live in a lovely world where the human being will be able to live in peace and harmony with the environment.
evp	harmony	noun	2	C2	a pleasant sound in music, made by playing or singing a group of different notes together	The choir sang in perfect harmony.	Having some singing knowledge myself, I can say their performance was excellent: the tune was maintained all through the concert, the rhythm was also carefully kept and they sounded in perfect harmony.
evp	harsh	adjective	1	C1	very cold, dangerous, or unpleasant and difficult to live in	harsh conditions	Furthermore, I have been trained for a year in living in harsh conditions.
evp	harsh	adjective	2	C1	cruel, unkind, or unpleasant in a way that seems unfair	harsh criticism/punishment	Sorry if I sounded so harsh in the letter but I felt it was important to make these points.
evp	harsh	adjective	3	C1	too strong, bright, loud, etc.	harsh chemicals/lighting	It only contains herbs and plant extracts so it would not be too harsh a product for the skin and will not destroy the skin's natural defenses.
evp	harshly	adverb	1	C2	in an unkind, strict, or unpleasant way	Violators are being dealt with harshly.	I am writing in response to a letter published in last week's issue of the newspaper "Society today", in which "An Inspector Calls", is harshly criticized.
evp	harvest	noun	1	B2	when crops are cut and gathered from fields	the wheat/corn/grape harvest	Well I can tell you about our annual harvest festival.
evp	hat	noun	1	A1	something you wear to cover your head, for fashion or protection	a straw hat	I want to wear this hat when I go to my grandmother's house.
evp	hate	verb	1	A2	to dislike someone or something very much	Kelly hates her teacher.	I love rock and techno but I hate rap.
evp	hate	noun	1	C1	a strong dislike for someone or something	Hate and bigotry can only make our lives more difficult.	Feelings of hate and disgust may fill us, but we may love somebody. Many people say that love and hate go together.
evp	hatred	noun	1	C1	an extremely strong feeling of dislike	What is very clear in these letters is Clark's passionate hatred of his father.	The producers create situations involving different feelings such as love, hatred, anger, fear,...
evp	haul	verb	1	C2	to pull something somewhere slowly and with difficulty	They hauled the piano into the living room.	"When I'm finished, you can jump whenever you like. Remember to hold on to each other, and we'll haul you up when it's all over."
evp	haul	noun	1	C2	an amount of something, often something that has been stolen or that is owned illegally	a haul of arms/drugs	Because of the loud noise of the running engine, she wasn't aware of the man behind her grabbing the smaller bag and turning round ready to escape with his haul.
evp	haunt	verb	1	B2	If a ghost haunts a place, it appears there often.	They say that the house is haunted by the soldier's ghost.	[The castle is 500 years old, and it is said to be haunted by a lady ghost.
evp	haunt	verb	2	B2	If an unpleasant memory or feeling haunts you, you think about or feel it often.	Fighting in Vietnam was an experience that would haunt him for the rest of his life.	And so John remained alone, haunted by the terrible loss.
evp	have	verb	1	A1	to own or possess	They have a big house.	I had a big house in Somalia, now I have a small house.
evp	have	verb	2	A1	If you have a particular illness, you suffer from it.	I have a cold.	I know you had the flu.
evp	have	verb	3	A1	to eat or drink something	I had a turkey sandwich for lunch.	I have dinner at 5 pm.
evp	have	verb	4	A2	to give birth to a baby	Elaine had a baby girl yesterday.	And later, we can go to Mary's house, because she has had a baby, and I would like to see her.
evp	have	verb	5	A2	to experience something	Have a nice day!	We played a lot of games and had fun.
evp	have	verb	6	A2	used with nouns to say that someone does or will do something	We have a committee meeting next week.	Last weekend, I had an argument with my parents, and I was angry, so I left my home and took a walk outside.
evp	have	verb	7	B1	to think of a question/idea/plan, etc.	Do you have any other ideas?	I have a question for you!
evp	have	verb	8	B1	to pay someone to do something for you	We had our washing machine repaired.	My mother is having her car repaired.
evp	have	verb	9	B1	If you have something stolen/taken, etc., someone takes something that belongs to you.	She had her car stolen last week.	He told me over the phone that he had arrived in London with his wife, but shortly after the arrival, he had had his wallet stolen in the underground station.
evp	have	verb	10	B1	to cause something to be in a particular state	He had dinner ready by the time we got home.	We had everything ready in case of an emergency or a chaos situation.
evp	have	verb	11	B1	used to say that someone is holding something, or that someone or something is with them	He had a pen in his hand.	Maria had the phone in her hand.
evp	have	verb	12	B1	to not know	"Where's Tina?" "I have no idea."	I have no idea about how his children are.
evp	have	verb	13	B2	If you have someone over/to stay, etc., you arrange for someone to visit you in your home.	We had David and Amy over for dinner last week.	It happened when I had a friend over for dinner.
evp	have	verb	14	B2	to be completely unable to guess, understand, or deal with something	I don't have a clue what you're talking about.	I just don't know which clothes to take with me because I don't have a clue about the Scottish weather.
evp	have	verb	15	B2	to have no connection or influence with someone or something	He made his own decision - I had nothing to do with it.	Of course, I tried to explain to him that I had nothing to do with the vanishing of the cake but he didn't trust me.
evp	have	verb	16	B2	If something has nothing to do with you, you have no good reason to know about it or be involved with it.	Stop asking questions. This has nothing to do with you.	The party was horrible: the guests were all talking about things that had nothing to do with me.
evp	have	verb	17	C1	to have a reason not to like someone or something	Ellen doesn't have anything against bowling either, so let's go!	If you have nothing against taking public transport, I suggest taking a bus.
evp	have	verb	18	C2	to ask, arrange for, or pay someone to do something	We need to have someone fix the radiator in the bedroom.	I would like to request you, as a manager, to either have someone fix the problem with the microwave or simply replace it.
evp	have	verb	19	C2	to dislike someone and want to cause problems for them	She really has it in for me - I don't know what I did to upset her.	Only then did she realize that somebody had it in for her.
evp	have	verb	20	C2	to be in a stronger position than someone else so that you control a situation	Government troops are gradually gaining the upper hand over the rebels.	Humans vs. machines - who has the upper hand?
evp	have	verb	21	B1	If you have clothes or shoes on, you are wearing them.	He's got a red shirt on.	I looked over my shoulder and there was Nora as white as the dress she had on.
evp	have	verb	1	A1	to own or possess	They have a big house.	I had a big house in Somalia, now I have a small house.
evp	have	verb	2	A1	If you have a particular illness, you suffer from it.	I have a cold.	I know you had the flu.
evp	have	verb	3	A1	to eat or drink something	I had a turkey sandwich for lunch.	I have dinner at 5 pm.
evp	have	verb	4	A2	to give birth to a baby	Elaine had a baby girl yesterday.	And later, we can go to Mary's house, because she has had a baby, and I would like to see her.
evp	have	verb	5	A2	to experience something	Have a nice day!	We played a lot of games and had fun.
evp	have	verb	6	A2	used with nouns to say that someone does or will do something	We have a committee meeting next week.	Last weekend, I had an argument with my parents, and I was angry, so I left my home and took a walk outside.
evp	have	verb	7	B1	to think of a question/idea/plan, etc.	Do you have any other ideas?	I have a question for you!
evp	have	verb	8	B1	to pay someone to do something for you	We had our washing machine repaired.	My mother is having her car repaired.
evp	have	verb	9	B1	If you have something stolen/taken, etc., someone takes something that belongs to you.	She had her car stolen last week.	He told me over the phone that he had arrived in London with his wife, but shortly after the arrival, he had had his wallet stolen in the underground station.
evp	have	verb	10	B1	to cause something to be in a particular state	He had dinner ready by the time we got home.	We had everything ready in case of an emergency or a chaos situation.
evp	have	verb	11	B1	used to say that someone is holding something, or that someone or something is with them	He had a pen in his hand.	Maria had the phone in her hand.
evp	have	verb	12	B1	to not know	"Where's Tina?" "I have no idea."	I have no idea about how his children are.
evp	have	verb	13	B2	If you have someone over/to stay, etc., you arrange for someone to visit you in your home.	We had David and Amy over for dinner last week.	It happened when I had a friend over for dinner.
evp	have	verb	14	B2	to be completely unable to guess, understand, or deal with something	I don't have a clue what you're talking about.	I just don't know which clothes to take with me because I don't have a clue about the Scottish weather.
evp	have	verb	15	B2	to have no connection or influence with someone or something	He made his own decision - I had nothing to do with it.	Of course, I tried to explain to him that I had nothing to do with the vanishing of the cake but he didn't trust me.
evp	have	verb	16	B2	If something has nothing to do with you, you have no good reason to know about it or be involved with it.	Stop asking questions. This has nothing to do with you.	The party was horrible: the guests were all talking about things that had nothing to do with me.
evp	have	verb	17	C1	to have a reason not to like someone or something	Ellen doesn't have anything against bowling either, so let's go!	If you have nothing against taking public transport, I suggest taking a bus.
evp	have	verb	18	C2	to ask, arrange for, or pay someone to do something	We need to have someone fix the radiator in the bedroom.	I would like to request you, as a manager, to either have someone fix the problem with the microwave or simply replace it.
evp	have	verb	19	C2	to dislike someone and want to cause problems for them	She really has it in for me - I don't know what I did to upset her.	Only then did she realize that somebody had it in for her.
evp	have	verb	20	C2	to be in a stronger position than someone else so that you control a situation	Government troops are gradually gaining the upper hand over the rebels.	Humans vs. machines - who has the upper hand?
evp	have	verb	21	B1	If you have clothes or shoes on, you are wearing them.	He's got a red shirt on.	I looked over my shoulder and there was Nora as white as the dress she had on.
evp	hazard	noun	1	C1	something that is dangerous	a fire hazard	Like all things, mobile phones have advantages and disadvantages. [...] It is said that they produce cancer and that they are a health hazard.
evp	hazardous	adjective	1	C2	dangerous	hazardous chemicals	They are faced with hazardous chemical reactions when trying to gain new knowledge and therefore people should be very grateful to them.
evp	head	noun	1	A1	the part of the body above the neck that contains your brain, eyes, nose, mouth, ears, etc., and on which your hair grows	Put this hat on to keep your head warm.	You must wear a cap on your head.
evp	head	noun	2	B1	the person who is in charge of an organization or a part of an organization	the head of an oil company	Joshua was the head of security of the international airport of New York.
evp	head	noun	3	B1	the mind and mental abilities	All these thoughts were going through my head.	Since I have never been there, I imagine all the places in my head.
evp	head	noun	4	C1	to stop being calm in a difficult situation	I saw the fire and I lost my head.	She has never lost her head in dangerous situations and she always knows what to do.
evp	head	noun	5	C2	to remain calm in a difficult situation	To be successful in business, you need to keep a cool head in negotiations.	Kevin managed to keep a cool head and took over the navigation.
evp	head	noun	6	C2	to have just enough money to live or to continue a business	With extra income from private sponsorship, the club is just about managing to keep its head above water.	I also started to realize how much she had on her plate, how very little help she had and how, at times, she had to struggle just like me to keep her head above water.
evp	head	noun	7	C2	to laugh/shout/scream, etc., very much and very loudly	The show was great! I laughed my head off.	Other pupils were laughing their heads off as she went.
evp	head	noun	8	C2	the front or top part of something	Who is that at the head of the table?	There, at the head of the line] her uncle with his two daughters waited for her.
evp	head	verb	1	B2	to move in a particular direction	I was heading out of the room when she called me back.	Then I headed for the dining room.
evp	head	verb	2	B2	to be in charge of a group, organization, etc.	She heads a thriving software business.	When Carlos headed the government, the country saw important changes, such as Free Trade among Canada, USA and Mexico; the selling of the banks; "democratic" elections.
evp	head	verb	3	C1	to be at the front or top of something	Jo headed a very short list of candidates.	When it comes to money paid to the families, Germany headed the list with 2%, followed by Spain with 0.25% and the USA with 0.2%.
evp	head	verb	4	B2	to be likely to experience a bad situation soon	They'll be heading for trouble if they're not careful.	Mankind is heading for the future sometimes faster than we think.
evp	head	verb	5	C1	to start to leave a place or begin a trip, walk, etc.	We'll head off after lunch.	After being snowed in, the following morning we headed off to Las Vegas.
evp	headache	noun	1	A2	a pain you feel inside your head	I have a splitting headache.	He said he feels sick and has a headache.
evp	heading	noun	1	C1	words at the top of a piece of writing that tell you what it is about	You'll find it under the heading 'Information for new students'.	As the advertisement included the heading "Come and discover the career of your dreams!", my attention was drawn to it.
evp	headline	noun	1	B1	the title of a newspaper story that is printed in large letters above it	a front-page headline	The headline was "FAILURE OF FESTIVAL".
evp	headline	noun	2	B2	the main stories in newspapers, on television, etc.	That story made headlines all over the world.	
evp	headquarters	noun	1	B2	the place from where an organization is controlled	The bank's headquarters are in New York.	I took my car and drove to the Police headquarters.
evp	heal	verb	1	B2	If a wound or broken bone heals, it becomes healthy again, and if something heals it, it makes it healthy again.	The wound on his head had begun to heal (up).	Biotechnology is providing us with the latest discoveries to heal or improve the human body.
evp	health	noun	1	A2	the condition of your body	to be in good/poor health	I like it very much because I think playing football is good for my health.
evp	health care	noun	1	C1	the set of services provided by a country or an organization for treating people who are ill	A large proportion of these taxes go towards providing health care.	In Britain, the NHS provides free health care for every citizen.
evp	healthy	adjective	1	A2	physically strong and well	She's a normal, healthy child.	Hope you are fine and healthy!
evp	healthy	adjective	2	A2	good for your health	a healthy diet	Lithuanian people eat natural (but not healthy) food.
evp	healthy	adjective	3	C2	successful and strong	a healthy economy	Still, these investments are needed, as they are essential for a healthy economy.
evp	heap	noun	1	C2	a messy pile of things	a garbage heap	Her mother was often out and Sue had nobody to share her thoughts with except for an .... old red diary with a .... lock. She kept it in her bedroom under the heap of old toys nobody cared for anymore.
evp	heap	noun	2	C2	a lot of something	He has heaps of money.	Apart from that, my overseas stay has made me believe that children who are brought up in families that do not have heaps of money are prepared for their life as an adult in a way that people who have always had money may never understand.
evp	hear	verb	1	A1	to be aware of a sound through your ears	She heard a noise outside.	I can hear birds singing there.
evp	hear	verb	2	A2	to listen to someone or something	I heard on the radio that it's going to rain.	I like soft rock music, and I would like to hear it at the concert.
evp	hear	verb	3	B1	to be told some information	Have you heard the news?	After, she told me that my mother-in-law had arrived in the city and, obviously, when I heard that, I started to cry.
evp	hear	verb	4	C2	the last time someone heard anything about someone or something	The last I heard, they will arrive Tuesday night.	That was the last I heard of her for a long time.
evp	hear	verb	5	B1	If you hear from someone, you get a letter, a message, or a telephone call from them, or they tell you something.	We haven't heard from her for a long time.	I didn't hear from my friend for a long time.
evp	hear	verb	6	B2	If you have heard of someone or something, you know that that person or thing exists.	I'd never heard of him before he won the prize.	The old man had never heard of the Dark Duck, so he asked Paul what it was.
evp	heart	noun	1	A2	the organ in your chest that sends the blood around your body	heart disease/failure	My father is going to have heart surgery.
evp	heart	noun	2	B1	someone's deepest feelings and true character	She has a kind heart.	She's very nice, a person with a good heart.
evp	heart	noun	3	B1	the center of something or the most important part of something	Kansas City is in the heart of cattle country.	This restaurant is in the heart of Tepec, and it is open from 10.00am to 6.00pm except on Friday.
evp	heart	noun	4	B2	a shape that represents a heart and is used to mean love	The card had a big heart on the front.	It had a red rose in its hand and a t-shirt with a big red heart saying "I love you." That was it!
evp	heart	noun	5	B2	used to say that you feel something very strongly	I thank you with all my heart.	With this letter, I want to thank you with all my heart for your hospitality during my visit to you.
evp	heart	noun	6	B2	so that you can remember all of something	She has read the stories so oftent that she knows them by heart.	I know all his songs by heart and I was singing all the time.
evp	heart	noun	7	B2	to make someone feel extremely sad	She really broke his heart when she left.	I saw them kissing each other. That was it - when I saw that scene, it broke my heart.
evp	heart	noun	8	C1	used to say what you really feel or think	In his heart, he knew she was right.	I have to admit that it was only a sensi]bl decision, because deep in my heart I knew I wanted to learn English.
evp	heart	noun	9	C2	If something comes from the heart it is something you strongly feel or believe	Her speech came from the heart.	It is much more than that, it is something you feel proud of, which comes from the heart.
evp	heart	noun	10	C2	used to say what someone is really like	I'm just a kid at heart.	I also thought that she was brave at heart.
evp	heart	noun	11	C2	to tell someone your secret thoughts and feelings	That night, she opened her heart to me.	It is during this excessively dramatic conversation that George opening up his heart, tells her about his interpretation of her unhappiness with Cecil.
evp	heart	noun	12	C2	If you take criticism or advice to heart, you think about it seriously.	Don't take it to heart - he was only joking about your hair.	I hope you will take my advice to heart.
evp	heart	noun	13	C2	If you do or say something with a heavy heart, you feel very sad or anxious	It was with a heavy heart that he packed his bags and left his home of many years.	I started to clear the table with a heavy heart, and was still in the process of washing up when the bell rang and, on dashing to open the door - I was the only one that was still up - I was relieved to find that my friends had come to greet me, as is their wont.
evp	heart	noun	14	C2	If something is dear to someone or dear to someone's heart, it is very important to them.	The charity was very dear to his heart.	Among all the places I enjoyed visiting, the city of Singapore is especially dear to my heart.
evp	heart	noun	15	C2	If you have a change of heart, you change your opinion or feelings about something.	At first he said he wouldn't help us, but he seems to have had a change of heart.	The narrator didn't tell her big secret to Inder Lal and after a change of heart she decides to keep the baby.
evp	heart attack	noun	1	B1	a serious medical condition in which the heart does not get enough blood, causing great pain and often leading to death	John had a heart attack three years ago.	I was really surprised when I read the e-mail, and discovered that our father had had a heart attack.
evp	heat	noun	1	A2	the system that keeps a building warm	Could you turn up/down the heat a little?	
evp	heat	noun	2	B1	the quality of being hot or warm, or the temperature of something	the heat of the sun/fire	The weather is magnificent, it's very hot but you can't feel the heat because if you go swimming it passes.
evp	heat	verb	1	B2	to make food hot so that it can be eaten	I'll just heat up the soup.	Do not spend your money on fast-food restaurants, and do not buy meals to heat up in your microwave.
evp	heater	noun	1	B1	a machine that heats air or water	The heater comes on automatically.	I have decided to buy a new carpet and a little heater.
evp	heaven	noun	1	B2	according to some religions, the place where good people go when they die	They told us that she had gone to heaven.	"Now she is in heaven - don't worry she will be okay." I started crying.
evp	heaven	noun	2	B2	something very nice that gives you great pleasure	I just lay in the sun for a week and did nothing - it was heaven.	These little islands are just heaven.
evp	heavenly	adjective	1	C1	very good	a heavenly day	The Art Gallery was well presented and the exhibits were heavenly.
evp	heavily	adverb	1	B1	a lot or to a great degree	It was raining heavily.	One day, when I was walking out in the park with my friend, it started raining heavily.
evp	heavy	adjective	1	A2	Heavy objects or people weigh a lot.	heavy equipment	My phone is awesome. It is very small and I like it because it isn't heavy and I can listen to music with it.
evp	heavy	adjective	2	A2	used to ask how much someone or something weighs	How heavy is your backpack?	
evp	heavy	adjective	3	B1	large in amount or degree	heavy traffic	There is fresh air, no heavy traffic and, more important for me, it is a quiet and calm place.
evp	heavy	adjective	4	C2	using a lot of force	a heavy blow	Every time planes from your airport fly overhead he imagines the horrors of the war he's lived through and experiences [...] distress in the form of his palms sweating, heavy breathing, and increased pulse and heart beat.
evp	heavy	adjective	5	C2	If you do or say something with a heavy heart, you feel very sad or anxious	It was with a heavy heart that he packed his bags and left his home of many years.	I started to clear the table with a heavy heart, and was still in the process of washing up when the bell rang and, on dashing to open the door - I was the only one that was still up - I was relieved to find that my friends had come to greet me, as is their wont.
evp	hectic	adjective	1	C1	extremely busy and full of activity	a hectic day/week	Alongside today's hectic life we need to adapt fashion to our lives and interests.
evp	hedge	noun	1	B2	a row of bushes growing close together, often used to divide land into separate areas	The tennis court was surrounded by a thick hedge.	Besides, people should be allowed to sit under the trees. At present, the lawn, bushes and hedges aren't open to people.
evp	heel	noun	1	B1	the part of a shoe that is under your heel	The boots had very high heels.	I hate wearing tight clothes, or shoes with high heels.
evp	heel	noun	2	B2	the back part of your foot	I got blisters on my heels from my new shoes.	
evp	height	noun	1	B1	how tall or high something or someone is	She's about my height.	I would prefer not to stay in a tent because of my height, I am so tall that I could never stand up.
evp	height	noun	2	B1	how far above the ground something is	The aircraft was flying at a height of about 11,000 feet.	All the pictures we took were nice, but the most beautiful one was the picture of Patricia and me at the top of the mountain "Kala Pattar", which is situated at a height of 5,600 meters!
evp	height	noun	3	C2	the strongest, most important or most successful part of something	I met him when he was at the height of his fame.	At the height of his success, he was told he had cancer and he had to interrupt his career, but only to come back some years later to show off his best.
evp	heir	noun	1	C2	a person who will have the legal right to someone's money and possessions when they die	He is the heir to a huge fortune.	The new will stated that Emma was the sole heir and inheritor of the property and money of her father.
evp	helicopter	noun	1	A2	an aircraft that flies using long, thin parts on top of it that turn around and around very fast	The injured were flown to the hospital by helicopter.	I got here by boat because it doesn't have an airport and it's too difficult for helicopters to land.
evp	hell	noun	1	B2	according to some religions, the place where bad people go when they die	I'll go to hell for this.	We decided to enter the attic and then, as if coming from hell, a big, dirty, old cat ran away through our legs.
evp	hell	noun	2	B2	an experience that is very unpleasant	It's been hell working with him.	However, this apparently relaxed activity can sometimes turn into a living hell; you may only be able to go shopping at the weekend and then, if you do go, you will find yourself in the middle of a huge crowd of people, unable to get to any product or even shop and feeling dizzy by the mixture of smells that come from the people.
evp	hell	noun	3	B2	used to emphasize something in a rude or angry way	What the hell are you doing here?	He was yelling again: "What the hell is going on?"
evp	hell	noun	4	C2	used to say that someone or something is very good, big, etc.	a hell of a noise	Secondly, I particularly appreciated the length of classes confined to some 5 hours a day, which offered the possibility of studying at length on your own and a hell of a lot of time to spare.
evp	helmet	noun	1	B2	a hard hat that protects your head	a crash helmet	Some good advice is: first of all get yourself a good bicycle, a helmet and some protective clothes, in case the weather changes.
evp	help	verb	1	A1	to make it easier for someone to do something by doing part of the work yourself	Thank you for helping.	But the people help me and it's okay.
evp	help	verb	2	A2	to provide advice, money, support, etc. to make it possible or easier for someone to do something	I wonder if you could help me - I'd like some information about flights to New Zealand.	I hope that my information helps you to plan your trip.
evp	help	verb	3	B1	to be unable to stop yourself from doing something or to stop something from happening	I can't help laughing when I think about what happened to you both!	I got so sad that I couldn't help crying.
evp	help	verb	4	B1	to take something, especially food or drink, without asking	Please help yourself to some coffee.	Some tables with sandwiches, salads and drinks are going to be available for you to help yourselves.
evp	help	verb	5	B2	to make something better	When you're nervous or scared, it helps to breathe slowly and deeply.	Everybody agrees with the importance of doing exercise regularly, it helps to take out the toxins from the body.
evp	help	verb	6	B2	to help someone, especially by giving them money or working for them	Sophia has been helping out in the store this week.	I helped out my friend by writing huge billboards and making some light refreshments.
evp	help	noun	1	A2	when someone helps another person	I was too embarrassed to ask for help.	If you need any help, I can bring food and drinks, but I can only come on Sundays.
evp	help	noun	2	B1	using something	She walks to the beach every day with the help of a cane.	The film was full of special effects created with the help of computer graphics, and it was very good.
evp	help	noun	3	B2	something or someone that helps	Having a new computer would be a help.	Two weeks ago I made a trip to Britain, and 'The Student Tourist Guidebook' was a great help when I visited Lampton.
evp	helper	noun	1	B2	someone who helps another person to do something	The tutoring progam needs more helpers.	I'll be more than happy to work as a helper.
evp	helpful	adjective	1	B1	willing to help, or useful	She's such a sweet, helpful girl!	The teacher is wonderful, she is so kind and helpful to everyone.
evp	helpless	adjective	1	C1	not able to defend yourself or do things without help	a helpless animal/child	I remember one day in school how helpless I felt because I had forgotten my glasses at home.
evp	hence	adverb	1	C1	for this reason	He has an interview today, hence the suit.	Hence, the more competition there is, the more benefits are given to both people and society.
evp	herb	noun	1	B1	a plant that is used in cooking to add flavor to food or is used in medicines	dried/fresh herbs	He was chattering with his parents and drinking warm milk with the smell of fresh herbs and flowers.
evp	here	adverb	1	A1	in the place where you are	Does Jane live near here?	He lives in Galicia, but now he's here in Cambridge to study English.
evp	here	adverb	2	A2	used when you are giving someone something	Here's a present for you.	Dear Jo, Here is some information about the art class.
evp	here	adverb	3	A2	used when you see someone or something you have been looking for or waiting for	Here she is at last.	
evp	here	adverb	4	B2	at this point in a discussion or piece of writing	I don't have time here to go into all the details.	My idea here is to highlight the fact that computers are going to control our lives.
evp	here	adverb	5	B2	in several different places or directions but without any pattern	Tall trees were growing here and there.	A lot of people rushed here and there.
evp	heritage	noun	1	C2	the buildings, paintings, customs, etc. which are important in a culture or society because they have existed for a long time	our architectural/cultural/religious heritage	We have already created a list of possible destinations with rich cultural heritage.
evp	hero	noun	1	B1	someone who does something brave or good, which people respect or admire them for	a war hero	I couldn't believe it and while I was wondering if this was a dream, Mike Skinner, my hero, appeared and instantly started chatting with me as if we had been friends for years.
evp	hero	noun	2	B1	the main male character in a book or movie, who is usually good	the hero of her latest novel	The film was very exciting because it was an action film and the hero was strong.
evp	heroic	adjective	1	C1	very brave	a heroic figure	I would be thrilled if I could lead thousands of warriors into heroic battles to conquer the world.
evp	heroic	adjective	2	C1	If someone makes a heroic effort to do something, they work very hard to try to do it.	In spite of the team's heroic efforts, they lost the game.	Individually or in organized groups, those who worry about the subject are making a heroic attempt to convince others of the importance of recycling, caring about the wildlife and sparing the woods from fire or massive exploitation.
evp	hesitate	verb	1	B2	to pause before doing something, especially because you are nervous or not certain	Richard hesitated before answering.	So, don't hesitate to buy that CD, it's a masterpiece and undoubtedly you'll love it.
evp	hesitate	verb	2	B2	used to encourage someone to do something	Please don't hesitate to get in touch if you need any more advice.	If you have more questions, do not hesitate to contact me.
evp	hidden	adjective	1	B1	A hidden thing or place is not easy to find.	a hidden valley	But to her surprise the policeman laughed and said, "You are the winner of our hidden camera contest".
evp	hidden	adjective	2	B2	If something is hidden, most people do not know about it.	hidden costs/taxes	I think this is a hidden danger of having a mobile phone and therefore the disadvantages are not as obvious as the advantage.
evp	hide	verb	1	B1	to put something in a place where it cannot be seen or found	She used to hide her diary under her pillow.	Lord Alloway hid the suitcase to protect it.
evp	hide	verb	2	B1	to go to a place where you cannot be seen or found	She ran off and hid behind a tree.	The plan is to bring him to my house, and everybody will hide in the living room. [W]hen he enters the room, we will shout 'Surprise'.
evp	hide	verb	3	B1	to keep a feeling or information secret	He couldn't hide his embarrassment.	I knew that you loved each other more than anything in this world, but I couldn't hide my surprise when you told me that you're getting married.
evp	hierarchical	adjective	1	C2	using a system that arranges things according to their importance	The company has a very hierarchical structure.	On the other hand, being too submissive will not help you in going up in a hierarchical structure.
evp	hierarchy	noun	1	C2	a system or organization in which people or things are arranged according to their importance	There is a very strict hierarchy where I work.	It is well known that clothes used to reflect the position that each individual had in the social hierarchy of our societies.
evp	high	adjective	1	A2	having a large distance from the bottom to the top	a high building/mountain	And also you can see high mountains and beautiful lakes.
evp	high	adjective	2	B1	a large distance above the ground or the level of the sea	a high window	Look[ing] out of the window, I can see the birds high up on the trees.
evp	high	adjective	3	B1	great in amount, size or level	a high temperature	Be careful while you are in Brazil because sometimes people charge really high prices for everything just because you are a tourist.
evp	high	adjective	4	B1	very good	high standards/quality	There were lots of CD players and everything was high quality.
evp	high	adjective	5	B2	important, powerful, or at the top level of something	a high rank	Living is definitely the highest priority all over the world.
evp	high	adjective	6	C1	If a food is high in something, it contains a lot of it.	Avoid foods that are high in salt.	Since there is no time even for cooking a healthy meal, they get used to ready meals that are high in fat and salt.
evp	high	adverb	1	B1	at or to a large distance above the ground	We flew high above the city.	Being in the cabin high above Vienna both of them thought about killing the other.
evp	high	adverb	2	C1	at or to a large amount or level	Temperatures rose as high as 105 degrees in the summer.	Can we expect to see the world unemployment rate reach as high as fifty percent?
evp	highlight	verb	1	B2	to emphasize something or make people notice something	to highlight a problem/danger	Electricity in general has been absorbed into our daily activities in such an intense way that we tend to take it for granted a]n it is exactly when it is not available that our dependency o] it is highlighted.
evp	highlight	verb	2	B2	to make something a different color so that is is more easily noticed, especially written words	The spelling mistakes in the text had been highlighted in yellow.	
evp	highlight	noun	1	B2	the best or most important part of something	The boat trip was one of the highlights of our vacation.	The Festival is one of the highlights of the year for me and many others.
evp	highly	adverb	1	B2	at a high level	a highly paid job	I am a 24-year-old highly educated Turkish boy.
evp	highly	adverb	2	C1	very or to a large degree	a highly effective treatment	Now it features a highly effective searching system.
evp	highly	adverb	3	C2	to have or express a very good opinion of someone or something	The course is very highly thought of.	This in itself would speak highly of the school and will attract many candidates and parents.
evp	high-profile	adjective	1	C2	A high-profile person or event is known about by a lot of people and receives a lot of attention from television, newspapers, etc.	a high-profile campaign/case	This is the main significant reason why sportsmen and sportswomen are now considered as high-profile celebrities.
evp	high school	noun	1	A2	a school for students aged between about 14 and 18	Rory will be starting high school in September.	Jan, Peter and our friends from high school came to my party.
evp	high-tech	adjective	1	B2	using or involved with the most recent and advanced electronic machines, computers, etc.	His new car has a high-tech sound system.	We can build up a high-tech computer lab, and last but not least, we can provide some talented students with scholarships.
evp	highway	noun	1	A2	a public road, especially a long, wide, important road that joins cities or towns together or that is used by traffic traveling long distances	a coastal/interstate highway	Yesterday I heard that our government is going to build a bypass road around our city and connect it with the highway.
evp	hiking	noun	1	A2	the activity of going for a long walk for pleasure outdoors	We're going hiking in the mountains this weekend.	We will drive to a place in the mountains and go hiking to another place there.
evp	hilarious	adjective	1	C1	extremely funny	They all thought the movie was hilarious.	In addition to this, the hosts and actors of the show have very few boundaries and are not afraid to make fools out of themselves, which means that they can do things that most people find very embarrassing, and this is something that contributes to making the show hilarious.
evp	hill	noun	1	A2	a raised area of land, smaller than a mountain	We walked up/down the hill to the village.	We can travel to Sierra de la Fentene, it is a nice village, and there are a lot of hills and streams.
evp	hinder	verb	1	C2	to make it difficult to do something or for something to develop	His performance at the Olympics was hindered by a knee injury.	Nothing, however, could hinder him from gaining more power and money.
evp	hint	noun	1	B2	when you say something that suggests what you think or want, but not in a direct way	He's dropped several hints to the boss that he'll quit if he doesn't get a promotion.	He didn't take a hint. When that day had come, I timidly approached him and gave him my final words of warning.
evp	hint	noun	2	B2	a small piece of advice	The magazine gives lots of useful hints on how to save money.	I would like to make use of this offer, therefore I am writing down some helpful hints about Lampton.
evp	hint	noun	3	C2	a small amount of something	There was a hint of anger in her voice.	The sky was leaden and overcast and there was a hint of drizzle in the air.
evp	hip	noun	1	B2	one of the two parts of your body above your leg and below your waist	She stood waiting with her hands on her hips.	She had a fractured ankle, a dislocated collar-bone and something was also wrong with her hips.
evp	hip-hop	noun	1	A2	a kind of music that originally developed among African Americans, where the words to songs are spoken and not sung	The station plays mainly hip-hop and R&B music.	Nick, I like hip hop and rock very much and most of the students agree with me.
evp	hire	verb	1	B2	to begin to to employ someone	I was hired by the first company I applied to.	The interview was OK and my friend and I were hired!
evp	historian	noun	1	C1	someone who writes about or studies history	His father was a famous historian.	I would be very willing to help historians solve the enigma about the origin of Thailand.
evp	historic	adjective	1	B1	important or likely to be important in history	historic buildings	I know you and I understand that you are coming to my country to visit ancient castles and historic buildings, so I recommend you to visit Rome: a fantastic city!
evp	historical	adjective	1	B1	relating to events or people in the past, or to the study of history	Many important historical documents were destroyed when the library was bombed.	Budapest is very beautiful with a lot of historical buildings and churches.
evp	historically	adverb	1	C1	in a way that is connected to history	The film makes no attempt to be historically accurate.	Well, maybe this brief description of my travel in time is not historically accurate; nevertheless I hope that you have enjoyed yourself reading it as much as I did writing it, and I hope you will consider it worthy of publication in your magazine.
evp	history	noun	1	A2	the whole series of events in the past that relate to the development of a country, subject, or person	The Civil War was a terrible time in American history.	I liked it very much because it was about Chinese history.
evp	history	noun	2	A2	the study of events in the past	He's very interested in modern European history.	Dear Nicolas, I think I left my history book in your house.
evp	history	noun	3	C1	If you have a history of a particular problem or illness, you have already suffered from it.	Our family has a history of diabetes.	The characteristic we are born with is to a certain level affected by genetic factors, e.g., if a mother has a history of depression her daughter or son will also have higher chance of getting depression.
evp	hit	verb	1	A2	to touch someone or something quickly and with force using your hand or an object in your hand	She hit him on the head with her tennis racket.	When I went in, somebody hit me with a pan!
evp	hit	verb	2	B1	to touch someone or something quickly and with force, usually causing injury or damage	The car went out of control and hit a wall.	He hit a boy on the main road but fortunately the boy was okay.
evp	hit	verb	3	B2	to affect something badly	The economy has been hit by high unemployment.	Penalties for parking in the wrong place can really hit you in the pocket.
evp	hit	verb	4	C1	to reach a place, position, or state	Our profits have already hit $1 million.	Having already hit the 50% boundary in 1991, we still see that the teachers' salaries experienced a significant rise.
evp	hit	verb	5	C2	If an idea or thought hits you, you suddenly think of it.	The idea for the book hit me in the middle of the night.	I climbed out of the shower, staggered into my room and then it hit me! "My diary! For crying out loud, that's it!"
evp	hit	verb	6	B2	If people hit it off, they like each other and become friendly immediately.	Carla and Nina didn't really hit it off.	They hit it off immediately.
evp	hit	noun	1	B1	a thing or person that is very popular or successful	The Beatles had a string of number-one hits in the 1960s.	The group RADIANT played their big hits from the 1980s for an hour.
evp	hit	noun	2	B2	a request to see a document on the Internet that is then counted to calculate the number of people looking at the page	There have been over 10,000 hits on the site since Wednesday.	
evp	hitchhike	verb	1	B1	to get free rides in someone's vehicle, by standing next to the road and waiting for someone to pick you up	We hitchhiked from Chicago to New Orleans.	We hitchhiked to the nearest city.
evp	hi-tech	adjective	1	B2	using or involved with the most recent and advanced electronic machines, computers, etc.	This database system is an affordable, hi-tech solution.	With the development of science and technology, many new inventions have entered our life, especially some hi-tech products.
evp	hobby	noun	1	A2	an activity that you enjoy and do regularly when you are not working	Ben's hobby is restoring old motorcycles.	My hobby is playing the guitar.
evp	hockey	noun	1	A2	a game played on ice in which two teams try to hit a small hard object into a goal using long curved sticks	We skate or play hockey with the kids' friends.	I just watched the hockey game with Newsha.
evp	hold	verb	1	A2	to have something in your hand or arms	He was holding a glass of wine.	I like to hold the cat tightly because her fur is so soft and lovely.
evp	hold	verb	2	B1	to keep something in a particular position	Can you hold the door open, please?	I looked at the letter again and now I understood why I didn't understand anything. I held it up side down, so I couldn't read it.
evp	hold	verb	3	B1	to organize an event	to hold talks/an election	Every evening the concerts are held in the open air, so you can have lots of fun.
evp	hold	verb	4	B1	to contain or be able to contain something	This pitcher holds up to two quarts.	Big companies which hold a huge amount of information would not be able to work without a computer.
evp	hold	verb	5	B2	to keep someone in a place so that they cannot leave	The terrorists held him hostage for 18 months.	All around the world animals are held as prisoners in zoos.
evp	hold	verb	6	B2	to keep air in your lungs and not let it out	How long can you hold your breath under water?	My heart was beating fast. I was holding my breath.
evp	hold	verb	7	B2	to have a particular position in a competition	to hold the world record	Nowadays she is an excellent sportswoman, she holds the world record.
evp	hold	verb	8	C1	to have a particular job, position, diploma, etc.	He currently holds the position of managing editor.	In fact 90% males hold the skilled vocational diploma whereas only 10% females hold the same degree.
evp	hold	verb	9	C1	to believe something	He holds unpopular views on many subjects.	Nowadays, some people hold the opinion that children who do not have good living conditions are better prepared to deal with the problems which they will encounter later on.
evp	hold	verb	10	C1	to have a conversation	I can just about hold a conversation in Italian.	I know the grammar and many different expressions, and I can hold a conversation with other people.
evp	hold	verb	11	C1	to keep someone interested in something	The movie held my attention from beginning to end.	The plot is so intricately constructed that it will not only hold your attention right up to the last page, but also last in your memory for a very long time.
evp	hold	verb	12	C2	to wait for something to happen, often feeling anxious	While the leaders negotiated, the world held its breath.	They, the critics, the fans and friends and his wife, held their breath and crossed their fingers, hoping to once again hear his enchanting voice.
evp	hold	verb	13	C2	to be as successful as other people or things	Alison could always hold her own in political debates.	
evp	hold	verb	14	C2	If you say that an argument doesn't hold water, you mean that it can't be true.	The jury convicted her because her story just didn’t hold water.	It remains to us to prove that the opinions of some scientists are far-fetched and don't hold water.
evp	hold	verb	15	C2	to like or respect someone less because they have done something wrong or behaved badly	It was his mistake but I won't hold it against him.	When my Dad was about sixteen, he had to get a job. [...] My uncle on the other hand was allowed to study until he was 21. They have never held it against each other, as far as I know.
evp	hold	verb	16	C1	to prevent someone or something from moving forward	The police held back the protesters.	At last, the guards were able to temporarily hold them back.
evp	hold	verb	17	C2	to prevent someone or something from making progress	She felt staying in the same job would hold her back.	For years, nothing could hold her back, and she didn't realize how her huge amount of self-confidence prevented her from seeing life as it really was.
evp	hold	verb	18	C1	to not tell everything you know about something	I think she suspected I was holding something back.	To be honest, I am holding back a lot more things special about the cottage, because I want you to come and have a look.
evp	hold	verb	19	C2	to stop yourself from showing an emotion	She couldn't hold back the tears.	In the last scenes, I could not hold back my tears any longer and I just burst into tears.
evp	hold	verb	20	C2	to keep a job	It can be difficult for a mother to hold down a full-time job.	I don't know how long I'd manage to hold down a job that I didn't like, and that didn't bring me anything other than money.
evp	hold	verb	21	C2	to wait before doing something	We'll hold off making a decision until we hear from Nick.	
evp	hold	verb	22	B1	to wait for a short time	Hold on - I have another call coming in.	I've a lot of good stories to tell you about so hold on.
evp	hold	verb	23	C1	something you say when you are confused or surprised by something that you have just heard or read and want to understand it	Hold on, if Sara's not coming, why are we asking for a table for six?	
evp	hold	verb	24	C2	to hold something firmly or to keep something	Hold onto the rope and don't let go.	I take my poetry book with me all the time to hold onto something so important to me.
evp	hold	verb	25	C2	to think that something is likely to succeed or have a good result	Few people hold out any hope of finding more survivors of the earthquake.	To be honest, I don't hold out much hope that this problem will ever be solved, because homelessness doesn't affect MPs personally.
evp	hold	verb	26	B1	to make something or someone slow or late	We got held up by the traffic.	Then I was held up in a traffic jam.
evp	hold	noun	1	B2	when you hold something or someone, or the way you do this	Keep a tight hold on your tickets.	When I got up on my feet again, I reached out my arm to get a hold on something, but there wasn't anything to hold on to.
evp	hold	noun	2	B2	to start holding something or someone	He took hold of one end of the rug and tugged.	"I'm scared!" said Nora trembling, as she took hold of my arm.
evp	hold	noun	3	B2	to obtain something, or to manage to speak to someone	I got hold of a copy at the library.	I had also forgotten to remind my friends and teachers to bring their own knife and fork to our lunch, but fortunately one of my friends managed to get hold of some spare knives and forks.
evp	hold	noun	4	C1	If a plan or activity is on hold, it will not be done until a later time.	The project is on hold until we raise more money.	What's more, it might, intentionally or not, raise awareness on issues that might have been put on hold by authorities, such as the legalization of soft drugs.
evp	hold	noun	5	C1	waiting to speak to someone on the telephone	His secretary put me on hold.	The day after, I called your office and after being put on hold, the person answering the phone was unwilling to come up with a proper reply.
evp	hold	noun	6	C2	power or control over something or someone	Their company has a strong hold on the computer market.	They send the money directly to his father and now have a hold on Chen.
evp	hole	noun	1	B1	a hollow space in something, or an opening in a surface	a bullet hole	I like wearing jeans with holes in them, they look cool.
evp	holiday	noun	1	A1	a day for celebration when many people are allowed to stay away from work or school	a national holiday	It is a holiday for us.
evp	hollow	adjective	1	C2	having a hole or empty space inside	a hollow shell/tube	He had taken the dark red leather-bound book to his hideout in the forest, an old oak tree with a hollow trunk, where he used to play alone.
evp	hollow	adjective	2	C2	without meaning or real feeling	a hollow victory	These celebrities tend to encourage a lifestyle that, at first, may be extremely appealing, specially to children and teenagers, but it is nothing more than pure hollow hedonism.
evp	hollow	adjective	3	C2	If something someone says rings hollow, it does not sound true or sincere.	He said he was pleased, but his words rang hollow.	Everything rang hollow to her, so she decided to follow him in order to understand what had happened and her fiancé became so friendly and understanding.
evp	holy	adjective	1	C1	relating to a religion or a god	the holy city of Jerusalem	I'd like to go inside and see for myself but only the holy priests are allowed to be in there and only on special occasions.
evp	home	noun	1	A1	the place where you live or feel you belong	I tried to call him, but he wasn't at home.	That's why I love my home.
evp	home	noun	2	B1	to feel happy and confident in a place or situation	After a month she felt at home in her new job.	I explained: "I was in Manchester for just 10 months and during that time the people from there made me feel at home so I feel proud to have the accent."
evp	home	noun	3	C1	the place where you usually find something or someone, or where they come from	France, the home of good food	Every golfer - and those watching golf - know, that the home of golf is St. Andrews in Scotland.
evp	home	noun	4	C1	to behave in a relaxed way in a place, as if it was your own home	Take off your coat and make yourself at home.	Please relax and make yourself at home and help yourself.
evp	home	noun	5	C1	a place where a group of people who need special care live	a nursing home	I've had a part time job as a nursing assistant at a home for elderly people, I've worked in a souvenir shop in Norway, and I've been away as an au pair in England.
evp	home	noun	6	C2	a family in which the parents do not now live together	Many of these children come from broken homes.	The development of the modern society has brought with it a growing number of broken homes, divorces and economic problems which have directly affected the parent-child relationship.
evp	home	adverb	1	A2	to the place where you live	He didn't come home until midnight.	I must go home at midnight because I have to travel tomorrow.
evp	home	adverb	2	B1	at or in the place someone lives	Will you be home tomorrow evening?	I'll not be home this afternoon.
evp	homeless	adjective	1	C1	without a place to live	10,000 people were made homeless by the floods.	As a result, there are a lot of homeless people in our local community.
evp	homeless	noun	1	C1	people who are homeless	They're opening a new shelter for the homeless.	The money spent on the royal family could be used for something else like building houses for the homeless.
evp	homelessness	noun	1	C2	the state of being homeless	The government is trying to tackle homelessness.	Unemployment is a major problem today and it leads more and more people onto the path of poverty and homelessness.
evp	homework	noun	1	A1	work that teachers give students to do at home	Have you done your homework yet?	I like doing my homework.
evp	honest	adjective	1	B1	sincere and telling the truth	If you want my honest answer/opinion, I think your hair looks awful.	I tell everything to my mother in order to be honest.
evp	honest	adjective	2	B1	not likely to lie, cheat, or steal	an honest man	I know it is an illusion, but I want to think that in the world there are some honest people.
evp	honest	adjective	3	B1	used to express your real opinion	To be honest, I didn't really enjoy the party.	To be honest, I do hate shopping for clothes.
evp	honestly	adverb	1	B1	used to emphasize that you are telling the truth	Thanks, but I honestly couldn't eat another piece of cake.	Honestly, I did not know what to do, I wanted to cry.
evp	honestly	adverb	2	B2	in an honest way	They have always dealt honestly and fairly with their customers.	If we want to answer this question honestly and sincerely, we should think about the advantages and disadvantages that keeping animals in zoos results in]
evp	honesty	noun	1	B2	the quality of being honest	I appreciate your honesty.	He's an extraordinary person and the TV viewers will love him because of his good sense of humor and his honesty.
evp	honey	noun	1	A2	a sweet, sticky food that is made by bees	Tea with honey and lemon is good for a sore throat.	For breakfast they eat bread with butter, jam or honey.
evp	honeymoon	noun	1	B1	a vacation taken by two people who have just gotten married	We went to the Bahamas on our honeymoon.	Where did you spend your honeymoon?
evp	honor	noun	1	B2	when people respect you because you have what you believe is honest and right, or the quality of doing this	a man of honor	Furthermore, whenever they do everything, they have to consider whether it will affect the honor of their family or parent or not.
evp	honor	noun	2	B2	in order to celebrate or show respect for someone or something	a banquet in honor of the president	Finally we went to Corinth, where there are a lot of ancient sanctuaries which were built in honor of their gods.
evp	honor	noun	3	B2	something that makes you feel proud and pleased	It's an honor to be the team captain.	It's an honor for me, to play for my country.
evp	honored	adjective	1	C1	proud and pleased because you have been given respect or asked to do something special	I am honored to accept your invitation.	I would feel greatly honored if I can render any help for this meaningful project, please don't hesitate to ask my assistance.
evp	hood	noun	1	B2	part of a piece of clothing that can be pulled up to cover the top and back of the head	The coat has a hood.	He was wearing a black hood.
evp	hook	noun	1	B2	a curved piece of metal or plastic used for hanging something on, or a similar object used for catching fish	a coat/picture hook	A few moments later she took out a rope, which had a hook on one end.
evp	hook	verb	1	B2	to like or start to like doing something very much and want to do it all the time	He's completely hooked on computer games.	It is such a great change to listen to well-known singers for those who are hooked on rock music.
evp	hop	verb	1	C1	to go somewhere quickly or get into or out of a vehicle quickly	to hop on a plane/train	The next thing that happens is that everyone hops in their cars and drives to the restaurant where they have dinner.
evp	hop	verb	2	C2	to jump on one foot or to move about in this way	He hopped across the room.	He was not to be able to stand still and seemed to be hopping and leaping with his violin while playing.
evp	hop	verb	3	C2	If a small animal, bird, or insect hops, it moves by jumping on all of its feet at the same time.	Rabbits were hopping across the field.	I advise a quite different restaurant, in a more peaceful area; it is a pavilion facing Monstsouris garden, where you can see birds hopping and flying through the trees, and swans on the lake.
evp	hope	verb	1	A2	to want something to happen or be true	I hope (that) the bus won't be late.	I hope you can come next time.
evp	hope	verb	2	B1	to intend to do something	Dad hopes to retire next year.	With this new class I hope to make progress.
evp	hope	noun	1	B1	a positive feeling about the future, or something that you want to happen or be true	a message full of hope	Ten minutes later I started to tell them how brave they were and how we fought when there was no hope.
evp	hope	noun	2	C1	because you want something good to happen	She went to Paris in the hope of improving her French.	Dear Dave Bennington, I am writing to you in the hope that you will attend our next event in July.
evp	hope	noun	3	C2	the best/last/only person or thing that can help you and make you succeed	Doctors say his only hope is a transplant.	My spirits sank at the same time as the water, our last hope of survival, did.
evp	hope	noun	4	C2	to think that something is likely to succeed or have a good result	Few people hold out any hope of finding more survivors.	To be honest, I don't hold out much hope that this problem will ever be solved, because homelessness doesn't affect MPs personally.
evp	hopeful	adjective	1	B1	feeling positive about a future event or situation	He was hopeful about the outcome of the meeting.	I know that it is quite impossible to find it i] a big town like mine, but I am still hopeful.
evp	hopeful	adjective	2	C2	If something is hopeful, it gives you reason to believe that what you want to happen will happen.	There are hopeful signs that she will make a full recovery.	The hopeful atmosphere darkened somewhat.
evp	hopefully	adverb	1	B1	used, often at the start of a sentence, to express what you would like to happen	Hopefully it won't rain.	Hopefully he likes me, too.
evp	hopefully	adverb	2	B2	in a hopeful way	"Are there any tickets left?" she asked hopefully.	I'll be waiting hopefully for your letter.
evp	hopeless	adjective	1	B1	without hope	a hopeless situation	When my uncle heard about my new hobby, he bought me a chess-computer to train for my first real match. At the moment I'm trying to win against it but I think it is hopeless.
evp	hopeless	adjective	2	B2	very bad at a particular activity	I'm hopeless at sports.	
evp	hopelessly	adverb	1	C2	extremely, or in a way that makes you lose hope	hopelessly lost	It's never easy to be young and hopelessly in love.
evp	horizontal	adjective	1	C1	level and flat, or parallel to the ground or to the bottom of a page	a horizontal line/stripe	Years are projected along the horizontal axis.
evp	horn	noun	1	B2	a piece of equipment used to make a loud sound as a warning or signal	a car/fog horn	How happy I was, hearing the sound of a car horn.
evp	horn	noun	2	C1	one of the two hard, pointed growths on the heads of cows, goats, and some other animals	These cows have curved horns.	Far in the south of Chile, you will find the smallest deer of the world called "Pudù". It is only 25 cm. tall, doesn't have big horns and eats fruit.
evp	horn	noun	3	C2	a curved musical instrument that you blow into to make a sound	He blew his horn.	At last, when the first notes came out of the orchestra, a spotlight showed the enormous figure of Ludwig van Mill strolling in the forest, blowing his horn and grinning at the trees.
evp	horrible	adjective	1	A2	very unpleasant or bad	He has a horrible cold.	I got a really nice T-shirt from Janeth, and a horrible pair of socks from Simon.
evp	horrified	adjective	1	C2	very shocked	When I told him all the money was gone, he was absolutely horrified.	When we arrived at the Riverside Lodge I was horrified to find out that there were no ramps in the building.
evp	horrifying	adjective	1	C2	extremely shocking	She sustained horrifying injuries in the attack.	Evading his unknown captors he is faced with a horrifying proposition.
evp	horse	noun	1	A1	a large animal with four legs, which people ride on or use for carrying things or pulling vehicles	to ride a horse	I also like to be with horses.
evp	hospitable	adjective	1	C1	A hospitable person or place is friendly, pleasant, and welcomes visitors.	We always find them very hospitable.	First of all, the families you will be staying with are exceptionally hospitable, always willing to show you a]roun in the local area.
evp	hospital	noun	1	A1	a place where ill or injured people go to be treated by doctors and nurses	I have to go to the hospital to have an operation.	She works in a hospital.
evp	hospitality	noun	1	C1	when people are friendly and welcoming to guests and visitors	The local people showed me great hospitality.	Our members were ever so pleased with the families and your kind hospitality.
evp	host	noun	1	B2	someone who invites people to a meal or a party, or to stay in their home	We thanked our hosts for the lovely evening.	My experience of living with a host family was very good, so I suggest we should look for a nice place for both of us.
evp	host	noun	2	C1	a large number of people or things	They serve lunches and perform a host of other duties.	In this day and age, we can buy Nike clothes, H[ead &] Shoulder[s] shampoos and a host of other products in the UK as well as other places in the world.
evp	host	noun	3	C2	someone who introduces the guests on a radio or television program	a talk show host	For a lot of youngsters some television hosts are regarded as role models because they are famous and do not seem to have problems with anything at all.
evp	host	verb	1	C1	If a place hosts an event, people there arrange it and it happens there.	The town hosts an annual jazz festival.	The city's largest hotels have conference rooms, able to host a large number of people.
evp	hostage	noun	1	C2	someone who is kept as a prisoner and may be hurt or killed in order to force other people to do something	Three hostages died in the attack.	The most extraordinary bond, however, develops between two of the hostages, namely Mr. Hosokawa himself and the American opera singer Roxanne Coss.
evp	hostage	noun	2	C2	to catch or keep someone as a prisoner	Two tourists were held hostage by terrorists.	At the party, however, things take an unexpected turn when all the visitors are taken hostage by a group of terrorists.
evp	hostel	noun	1	B1	a place like a cheap hotel, where you can live when you are away from home	a youth hostel	We'll stay in a hostel be]caus it's cheap.
evp	hostile	adjective	1	C1	unfriendly and not liking or agreeing with something	Some politicians were very hostile to the idea.	She is not hostile or aggressive.
evp	hostile	adjective	2	C1	unpleasant or not suitable for living or growing	a hostile climate	However, they do not realize that they have to survive in a hostile environment, living in unsafe and unhealthy slums.
evp	hostility	noun	1	C2	unfriendly, angry behavior that shows that you dislike someone	He tried to hide his hostility toward outsiders.	As Edmund's cruelty and hostility toward Charles intensified, and Charles' attempts to escape failed, his unhappiness increased, which led to his ultimate self-destruction.
evp	hot	adjective	1	A1	having a high temperature	a hot, sunny day	I like this place because in the summer it is very hot.
evp	hot	adjective	2	B1	Hot food contains strong spices that cause a burning feeling in your mouth.	hot chili peppers	I really like the hot and spicy chicken with zucchini]
evp	hot	adjective	3	C1	a subject which people discuss and have strong feelings about	Health care is still a hot topic.	Whether to compete or to cooperate has become a hot issue in today's society, both in public and private.
evp	hot	adjective	4	C1	exciting or interesting	Hollywood's hottest new actress	That would mean that Bill Gates is the hottest celebrity on earth, but he is not.
evp	hot dog	noun	1	B1	a long thin cooked sausage, usually eaten on a special type of bread	We can get some hot dogs at the game.	We both had a coke and a hot dog.
evp	hotel	noun	1	A1	a place where you pay to stay when you are away from home	a 4-star hotel	Cracow offers a lot of very nice hotels, restaurants and pubs.
evp	hour	noun	1	A1	a period of 60 minutes	The exam lasted an hour and a half.	I study English for four hours per week.
evp	hour	noun	2	B1	a long time	I spent hours doing my homework.	We spent hours talking, but at ten o'clock he took me home.
evp	hour	noun	3	C1	very late at night, until early morning, or almost all the time	Our neighbors play loud music at all hours of the day and night.	This causes traffic jams at all hours of the day.
evp	hour	noun	4	C2	the hours between midnight and the time in the morning when people usually begin their day	She worked into the wee hours of the morning.	
evp	hourly	adjective	1	B2	done or happening every hour	There's an hourly bus service into town.	
evp	hourly	adjective	2	B2	for each hour	an hourly rate	I'll also call the shop and ask about the hourly rate and the working hours.
evp	hourly	adverb	1	C1	once every hour	The train runs hourly on weekends.	This train runs hourly and takes about 90 minutes to Kassel which is the second stop.
evp	house	noun	1	A1	a building where people live, usually one family or group	a three-bedroom house	Come to my house for dinner tomorrow.
evp	house	noun	2	C2	the people watching a performance or the area where they sit	The actors played to a full house.	
evp	house	verb	1	C2	to provide space for something	The museum houses a huge collection of paintings.	Her study houses a really huge collection of books on history, architecture, and geography of the places we have been to.
evp	house	verb	2	C2	to give a person or animal a place to live	This development will house over 100 families.	To have long-liv[ed] people is to have more people to be housed, fed, educated, hospitalized, etc.
evp	household	noun	1	B2	a family or group of people who live together in a house	By the 1960s, most households had a TV.	In Japan, for example, the vast majority of households have at least one car nowadays.
evp	housewife	noun	1	A2	a woman whose work is inside the home, doing the cleaning, cooking, etc., and who usually does not have any other job	My grandmother was the perfect housewife.	I have also enjoyed "Desperate housewives", "the O.C" and of course "the Oprah show" recently.
evp	housework	noun	1	B1	the work of keeping a house clean and neat	I hate doing housework.	I ran out of vegetables and cans, and as I was not at home the housework wasn't done, and the children almost destroyed my furniture.
evp	housing	noun	1	C1	buildings for people to live in	a shortage of affordable housing	Many trees have been cut in order to make roads or used for housing and making furniture.
evp	however	adverb	1	A2	used when you are about to say something that is surprising compared with what you have just said	This is one possible solution to the problem. However, there are others.	I will be very happy to go fishing and swimming in the lake like the last time. However, if you don't want to do it, it's not a problem for me.
evp	however	adverb	2	B2	used to say that it does not make any difference how cold/difficult/slowly, etc.	We're not going to get there in time, however fast we drive.	We think that we are careful and that we can avoid traffic accidents, but however careful we may be, some other people might be careless and hit us.
evp	hug	verb	1	B1	to put your arms around someone and hold them tightly, usually because you love or like them	They hugged each other when they met at the station.	We walked in the street together and spoke to each other for more than for four hours and at the end we hugged and kissed.
evp	hug	noun	1	B1	when you put your arms around someone and hold them tightly	Come here and give me a big hug.	The singer of the band ,"Green Day" was coming towards me. [He] took my hand and then gave me a hug.
evp	huge	adjective	1	B1	extremely large	They live in a huge house.	I live in a huge old house in the suburbs with my family.
evp	hum	verb	1	C2	to sing without opening your mouth	She walked around the house, humming a song.	Secretly, when nobody can hear them, they hum a little tune or whistle a melody, their faces beam, and their hearts grow warm.
evp	human	adjective	1	B1	relating to people or their characteristics	the human body	As for me, the last good program I saw was a scientific episode about the abilities of the human brain.
evp	human	adjective	2	C2	to not be perfect	Of course Tom makes mistakes - he's only human.	In theory, it is easy to say "We should learn from the mistakes of the past" but is it easy to do so in practice? Many people would say "No" to this question, as we are only human.
evp	human	noun	1	B1	a man, woman or child	The greatest damage being done to our planet today is that being done by humans.	I don't believe that people want to hurt each other for money and power but this has happened all the time in the history of human beings.
evp	humanitarian	adjective	1	C2	connected with improving people's lives and reducing suffering	The UN is sending humanitarian aid to the refugees.	Indeed, the conflicts in the Balkans are so deeply rooted and complex that they can be likened to a political quagmire: once you go in, a withdrawal of humanitarian aid and military forces becomes difficult to undertake.
evp	humanity	noun	1	C1	all people	The massacre was a crime against humanity.	All humanity enjoys the numerous advances in modern technology and in our day, life has become more interesting and easier.
evp	humanity	noun	2	C2	kindness and sympathy toward others	Mother Teresa was famous for her compassion and humanity.	When he sees Faber's intelligence and humanity, he is once more convinced of the fact that books are a good thing and that they should be preserved rather than destroyed and he decides to fight for this.
evp	humanity	noun	3	C2	the condition of being human	War robs these people of their humanity.	At last they will be back home, but they are sure that nobody could give them again that humanity that the war took away.
evp	human rights	noun	1	B2	the basic rights that every person should have, such as justice and freedom to say what you think	international laws protecting human rights	My main interest is the way of life during the so-called French Period; that period is very important for the foundation of human rights and the way parliament ought to work.
evp	humble	adjective	1	C2	not proud or not believing that you are important	He's very humble about his success.	I am aware that this may be perceived by some people as a naive point of view, as such humble values are becoming less and less popular in today's materialistic world.
evp	humble	adjective	2	C2	poor or of a low social rank	She rose from humble beginnings to become Prime Minister.	As a result of it, he never forgot his humble origins in a small region of Spain.
evp	humble	adjective	3	C2	used to give your opinion about something, often when you are sure you are right	In my humble opinion, that's the wrong decision.	In my humble opinion, there's no such thing as a uniform celebrity, good, bad or otherwise.
evp	humid	adjective	1	B1	Humid air or weather is hot and slightly wet.	It's very humid today.	[The] north of Iran is wet but the south of Iran is humid and hot.
evp	humiliated	adjective	1	C2	made to feel stupid or ashamed	She felt completely humiliated.	Never again in my life have I felt so miserable and humiliated.
evp	humiliating	adjective	1	C2	making you feel stupid or ashamed	a humiliating defeat	How humiliating it had been to have her parental abilities questioned.
evp	humility	noun	1	C2	the quality of not being proud or not thinking that you are better than other people	Try to show a little humility.	This growing shopping mania is also said to create an increasingly materialistic society; hence, our children grow up forgetting the basic values of life - simplicity, integrity, humility and plain hard work.
evp	humorous	adjective	1	C1	funny, or making you laugh	a humorous book	To be more specific, the articles will include events taken from our college life, written in a humorous, chatty way.
evp	hundred	noun	1	A2	the number 100	We've driven a/one hundred miles in the last two hours.	It cost nine hundred yuan at least.
evp	hunger	noun	1	B1	the feeling you have when you need to eat or have not eaten enough	Drinks don't satisfy your hunger the way solid food does.	It wa] what I expected, a baby crying from hunger.
evp	hunger	noun	2	B2	when you do not have enough food	All over the world, people die of hunger every day.	Many changes are coming and many problems are coming too, because overpopulation, contamination, pollution, hunger, and poverty besides come with this technological revolution and that is something that the human being will have to solve soon.
evp	hunger	noun	3	C1	a strong wish for something	a hunger for knowledge/adventure	The most important factor when learning English is the hunger for knowledge, the hunger for the unknown.
evp	hungry	adjective	1	A1	wanting or needing food	By four o'clock I felt/was really hungry.	I'm very happy about this dinner, because after work I'm so hungry.
evp	hungry	adjective	2	C2	to have a strong wish for something	The journalists were hungry for more details of the accident.	I am always fascinated with people who are well-educated and do not stop being hungry for information.
evp	hunt	verb	1	B1	to chase and kill wild animals	Some animals hunt at night.	As I was saying, you can also go to jungle hotels - comfortable hotels in the middle of the forest, just crossing the Amazon River, where you can keep in touch with nature, feed monkeys and even "hunt" alligators (all sizes, believe me!).
evp	hunt	verb	2	B2	to search for something or someone	I've hunted all over the place, but I can't find that book.	You don't have to hunt for a place to park your car and to worry what will happen when you're out of gas.
evp	hunt	noun	1	C1	a search for something or someone	After a long hunt we finally found a house we liked.	What is more, it helps to face problems which could occur during the hunt for a "lifetime" job.
evp	hunting	noun	1	B2	the sport of chasing and killing animals	deer hunting	And of course hunting won't be allowed.
evp	hurry	verb	1	A2	to move or do things more quickly than normal, or to make someone do this	Hurry, or you'll be late.	I will start painting at 3:45 pm but you don't have to hurry.
evp	hurry	verb	2	B1	to do something more quickly	Hurry up, or we'll miss the bus.	I woke up at 9 a.m. I had to hurry up because my flight was at 11 a.m.
evp	hurry	verb	3	B2	to make someone do something more quickly, or to make something happen sooner	Can't you hurry the kids up so we can get there on time?	
evp	hurry	noun	1	B1	the need to move or do things more quickly than normal	We left in such a hurry that we forgot our tickets.	Maybe she was nervous or in a hurry and wrote my e-mail adress instead of his.
evp	hurt	verb	1	A2	to cause pain	Sam hurt his knee playing football.	I hurt myself one week ago so I can't help you.
evp	hurt	verb	2	A2	If a part of your body hurts, it feels painful.	My eyes really hurt.	I'[m going to see the dentist, because my tooth is hurting and I really need to go.
evp	hurt	verb	3	B1	to cause emotional pain to someone	She called me stupid and fat, and that really hurt.	My heart was hurt and nobody will be able to repair the damage.
evp	hurt	adjective	1	B1	injured or in pain	Let me help you up. Are you hurt?	He told me: "Your father got hurt in a traffic accident!"
evp	hurt	adjective	2	B1	upset or unhappy	I feel very hurt by what you said.	I know you got very hurt when you and Brian broke up.
evp	husband	noun	1	A1	the man a woman is married to	I've never met Fiona's husband.	On Sunday afternoons, she goes with her husband and her son to the swimming pool.
evp	hut	noun	1	B1	a small, simple building, often made of wood	a mountain hut	Finally, we reached a hut near a river, where we stayed until the following day, when we returned home by bus.
evp	hygiene	noun	1	C1	the process of keeping things clean, especially to prevent disease	health and hygiene regulations	The ones that need medical services at home have hardly got anyone, and no one has helped them with personal hygiene.
evp	hygienic	adjective	1	C2	very clean, so that bacteria cannot spread	hygienic conditions	That was not only extremely uncomfortable, but also inconvenient and not very hygienic.
evp	hyphen	noun	1	B2	a mark (-) used to join two words together, or to show that a word has been divided and continues on the next line	There should be a hyphen in "high-tech."	
evp	hypocrisy	noun	1	C2	when someone pretends to believe something that they do not really believe or that is the opposite of what they do or say at another time	I can't stand their hypocrisy - they say they care about the poor but then they go home and drink champagne.	I would recommend Hartley's novel to people who would like to see the world once more from the point of view of a child: a world too strange, too full of hypocrisy and egotism to be understood by a boy.
evp	hypocritical	adjective	1	C2	Hypocritical people pretend to believe things that they do not really believe or that are the opposite of what they do or say at another time.	Having told Tom that he should not accept any money from her, it would be rather hypocritical if I did.	One unique thought haunted her: go away from the environment she was living in and which she couldn't stand: the four-hour teas, the incessant discussions about Mrs X who was pregnant and Mr X who had lost his fortune in a game, the hypocritical smiles, the narrow-minded people blinded by money... all those details which enraged Lucy.
evp	hypothesis	noun	1	C2	a suggested explanation for something which has not yet been proved to be true	They are investigating the hypothesis that obesity may be caused by a virus.	The first impression that comes to my mind is that when you live longer, you gain more experience and wisdom, which you can convey to your children, therefore the society becomes more experienced, responsible etc. (unfortunately, real life does not back up this hypothesis).
evp	hysterical	adjective	1	C1	If someone is hysterical, they cannot control their feelings or behavior because they are extremely frightened, angry, excited, etc.	Calm down, you're getting hysterical.	I became hysterical and started shouting at him.
evp	ice	noun	1	A2	water that has frozen and become solid	Gerry slipped on the ice and broke his arm.	[It's fun when you slide on the ice.
evp	ice	noun	2	B2	to make people feel more relaxed in a social situation	I told everyone a joke, which helped to break the ice.	And, of course, don't forget that a warm smile is one of the best ways to break the ice.
evp	iceberg	noun	1	C1	a very large piece of ice in the coldest waters of the ocean	The ship hit an iceberg.	Another animal you cannot miss is the Humboldt penguin - you can see thousands of them all over an iceberg.
evp	iceberg	noun	2	C2	to be a small part of a very big problem	We've corrected a few errors, but they're just the tip of the iceberg.	He racked his brain trying to remember where he might have left it and finally realized that his problems were just a tip of the iceberg, if her mother knew about the loss.
evp	ice cream	noun	1	A1	a sweet, frozen food made from milk or cream, sugar, and a flavor	chocolate/vanilla/strawberry ice cream	I like chocolate and ice cream with fruit.
evp	ice hockey	noun	1	A2	the game of hockey	He loves ice hockey.	I like watching ice hockey, because I play this game too.
evp	ice skating	noun	1	B1	the activity or sport of moving across ice using ice skates	We're going ice skating.	Last year, I went ice-skating with some friends and it was not as easy as I thought it would be, but I liked it anyway.
evp	icon	noun	1	B2	a small picture on a computer screen that you choose in order to make the computer do something	Click on the print icon.	He clicked on the icon on the screen which started the operation.
evp	icon	noun	2	B2	a person or thing that is famous because it represents a particular idea or way of life	He's a musical innovator and cultural icon.	I think he is still very famous because he is an icon and kickboxing is still very popular because of him.
evp	icy	adjective	1	B1	covered in ice	icy roads	She had fallen off it on an icy street and had got injured.
evp	icy	adjective	2	B1	extremely cold	an icy wind	Fast as the wind, she was falling down and down, until her long thin finger touched the icy cold water.
evp	icy	adjective	3	B2	without showing any emotion	an icy stare	FOGG is the typical rich English man: cold with an icy heart, uncommunicative.
evp	ID	noun	1	A2	an official document that shows or proves who you are	Make sure you carry some ID with you.	Please could you check if you have it because it contains my ID.
evp	ID card	noun	1	A2	a card that shows your name, photograph, and information to prove who you are	You will need a passport or an ID card.	Last night I left my ID card in your house.
evp	idea	noun	1	A2	a suggestion or plan	a bad/brilliant/great/stupid idea	Nick, it's a wonderful idea!
evp	idea	noun	2	B1	to not know	"Where's George?" "I have no idea."	I have no idea about how his children are.
evp	idea	noun	3	B1	an opinion or belief	We have very different ideas about the environment.	Have you changed your ideas after the exhibition about the future of your town?
evp	idea	noun	4	B2	an understanding, thought or picture in your mind	Do you have any idea what he looks like?	For children it's great to get an idea of how these "big" animals eat, drink and live.
evp	idea	noun	5	C1	the aim or purpose of something	The idea is to give the students a chance to voice their opinions.	This was the idea behind this new product: although made in New Zealand, the new product would have its name, packaging, marketing and advertising support in keeping with the Russian traditions.
evp	idea	noun	6	C2	the principle of something	We all admire the idea of dignity.	Many of us sit there with watery eyes, as we're moved by the idea of unification, equality and brotherhood among the different nations of the world.
evp	idea	noun	7	C2	used to emphasize that you do not know something	I haven't the faintest idea what you're talking about.	Some twenty years ago, when I left my parents' home to go and live on my own, I was given four mugs. By whom? I haven't the faintest idea.
evp	ideal	adjective	1	B2	perfect, or the best possible	the ideal job	The market on Wednesday is an ideal occasion to meet and photograph the local people.
evp	idealistic	adjective	1	C1	believing that it is possible to achieve very good things, even when others do not think this is likely	When I was young and idealistic, I believed it was possible to change the world.	Carolina has conquered the world, not only through her impressive results but through her appearance in front of the cameras, her idealistic ideas and her constantly happy mood.
evp	ideally	adverb	1	B2	in a perfect way	She seemed ideally suited for the job.	I believe I am ideally suited for this job.
evp	ideally	adverb	2	B2	used to talk about how something would be in a perfect situation	Ideally, I'd like to work at home.	Ideally, through this camp, I would like to teach Japanese songs and dance to them and I would also like to learn about their culture.
evp	identical	adjective	1	B2	exactly the same	I've got three identical blue suits.	We have identical tastes which is pretty unusual, I think, particularly in adults.
evp	identification	noun	1	A2	an official document that shows or proves who you are	We were asked to show some identification before the security guards would let us in.	It's important to send my wallet back as I can't withdraw money from my account without any proof of identification.
evp	identification	noun	2	B2	when you recognize and can name someone or something	Identification of the victims of
the plane crash still is not complete.	[In the home of the future,] we might even be using voice identification and fingerprints instead of keys.
evp	identify	verb	1	B2	to recognize someone or something and say or prove who or what they are	Even the smallest baby can identify its mother by her voice.	Mainly for children, zoos teach them many things about animals; for instance, their habits, their relationship to each other and the original propose: to know many kinds of animals and identify them.
evp	identify	verb	2	B2	to find a particular thing or all the things of a particular group	You need to identify your priorities.	The purpose of this report is to identify which lessons or other activities should be filmed.
evp	identify	verb	3	B2	to feel that you are similar to someone, and can understand them or their situation because of this	Readers can easily identify with the hero's sense of frustration at the beginning of the novel.	Orwell gives the animals human characteristics and we can identify with them.
evp	identity	noun	1	B2	who someone is	to hide/protect your identity	But this idea fell through when the real Martine revealed her identity.
evp	identity	noun	2	B2	the things that make one person or group of people different from others	cultural/national identity	There were many people and many speakers who talked about all sorts of subjects such as politics, religion, gender identity, and art.
evp	idiom	noun	1	B2	a group of words used together with a meaning that you cannot guess from the meanings of the separate words	To "bite off more than you can chew" is an idiom that means to try to do something that is too difficult for you.	[Greek] has many verbs, adjectives and idioms and the grammar can be very complicated.
evp	idiot	noun	1	B2	a stupid person or someone who is behaving in a stupid way	Some idiot left the faucet on in the bathroom and there's water everywhere.	Everybody was treating me like a big idiot.
evp	idle	adjective	1	C1	not working or not doing anything	It was break time and both the machines and the workers sat idle.	I saw some people from the group wandering here and there in Pic[c]adilly Circus & Street, but most of them were sitting idle in their rooms watching TV or just spending their time in the hotel bar or restaurant.
evp	idle	adjective	2	C2	not serious or having no real purpose	idle chatter/speculation	However, as soon as it became a plan of action rather than an idle thought, it began to grow on her.
evp	idol	noun	1	C1	someone who you admire and respect very much	Baseball players were his childhood idols.	The reason for the choice is that it was the time when Bill Gates, my idol, started his business and when people began to use computers.
evp	idol	noun	2	C2	a statue or picture that represents a god, which people pray to as part of their religion	H has a small stone idol of a Hindu deity.	Buddha idols stand in rows protected by glass cases.
evp	ignorance	noun	1	C2	when someone does not have enough knowledge, understanding, or information about something	There is widespread ignorance about how disease spreads.	However, living in ignorance about the history and the origins of things that one is surrounded with is like showing disrespect to those who helped to create the modern world as it is known today.
evp	ignorant	adjective	1	C2	not having enough knowledge, understanding, or information about something	He was a newcomer to Formula One and ignorant of many of the circuits.	It is often claimed by scientists that people's modern lifestyle has resulted in this plight our world is facing and that unfortunately people are either ignorant of it or indifferent.
evp	ignore	verb	1	B2	to pay no attention to something or someone	I smiled at her but she just ignored me.	Paul ignored it at first and continued his shopping but the dog kept following him.
evp	ill	adjective	1	B2	not feeling well, or suffering from a disease	He is in the hospital,  critically ill.	I had to make some phone calls home because my brother was a little ill, but I would like to pay you for them.
evp	ill	adjective	2	C1	bad	He suffered no ill effects from his fall.	Working long hours can have ill effects on the health.
evp	ill	adjective	3	C2	feeling anxious and not relaxed	He looked ill at ease in the room full of reporters.	I was a bit annoyed, or rather, ill at ease at first; but his kindness soon made me feel relaxed in his company.
evp	illegal	adjective	1	B2	not allowed by law	Fireworks are illegal in many states.	Although he has a very charming personality, he uses it to take part in illegal activities and he has been in trouble with the law several times.
evp	illegally	adverb	1	B2	in a way that is not allowed by law	They entered the country illegally.	He was afraid and bought a gun illegally.
evp	illiterate	adjective	1	C2	not able to read or write	Most of the children are illiterate.	It is well known that many European charity workers travel to developing countries in order to educate illiterate children or to rebuild ruined villages.
evp	illness	noun	1	B1	a disease of the body or mind	He died at home after a long illness.	It's because my aunt has a terrible illness and I have to go and see her.
evp	illness	noun	2	B2	when you are ill	She had five days off work due to illness.	There was a little paper on the door which informed us that the restaurant was closed due to illness.
evp	illusion	noun	1	C2	an idea or belief that is not true	He had no illusions about his talents as a singer.	Just one detail turning out to be not as expected or not perfect is often enough to shatter their illusions and cause arguing.
evp	illusion	noun	2	C2	something that is not really as it appears to be	There is a large mirror at one end to create the illusion of more space.	This architectural solution creates an illusion of space, one may feel as inside a vast hall.
evp	illustrate	verb	1	B2	to add pictures to something such as a book or magazine	She writes children’s books and also
illustrates them.	Last year I illustrated two children's books by H. J. Simons.
evp	illustrate	verb	2	C1	to give information through diagrams, lists of numbers, etc.	This process is illustrated in the diagram below.	The pie chart illustrates the primary causes of agricultural land becoming less productive worldwide.
evp	illustrate	verb	3	C1	to give more information or examples to explain or prove something	To illustrate her point,
 
 she told a story about how her family felt when they moved here.	Secondly, the careers that were presented illustrated very well the possibilities in the selected fields.
evp	illustration	noun	1	C1	a drawing, painting, photograph, or other picture	Look at the illustration on page 37.	When you read about that period of time in history books and see pictures and illustrations, you can almost "feel" the atmosphere and sense the power the Monarc[h]y possessed at the time.
evp	illustration	noun	2	C2	an example that explains or proves something	This delay is a perfect illustration of why we need a new computer system.	And it seems to me that this difference inevitably affects not only the range of foods which are available in those countries but also their appearances: a good illustration of this is probably the case of French cuisine which is always served in a decorative way on beautiful plates.
evp	image	noun	1	B2	the way that other people think someone or something is	He wants to improve his public image.	In conclusion, I do not think that there are many things to do for Turin, but what I said before could really improve the image of our wonderful town.
evp	image	noun	2	B2	a picture, especially on film or television or in a mirror	a digital/satellite/video image	On the one hand, the first obvious advantage of watching television is that it shows us images, for example, that do not appear in the books, like a movie.
evp	image	noun	3	C2	a picture in your mind or an idea of how someone or something is	I have an image in my mind of the way I want the garden to look.	It conjures up images of brightly lit and decorated malls, big stores, little stores proudly showing off their wares.
evp	imaginary	adjective	1	C1	not real but imagined in your mind	The story takes place in an imaginary world.	Mickey Mouse [...] describes stories that can happen to humans whereas Spong[e] Bob lives in an imaginary world underwater.
evp	imagination	noun	1	B1	the part of your mind that creates ideas or pictures of things that are not real or that you have not seen	There's nothing out here - it's just your imagination.	I thought it was my imagination, because it was very late and the concert had been so long.
evp	imagination	noun	2	B1	the ability to create ideas or pictures in your mind	The job needs someone with creativity and imagination.	Endless imagination and the development of technology will lead us to future fashion.
evp	imagination	noun	3	C2	to make someone very excited or interested in something	His paintings really fired my imagination.	The newspaper article on education that I read really fired my imagination and urged me to think about the points raised.
evp	imaginative	adjective	1	C1	new or clever and often unusual	an imaginative use of color	Her imaginative stories are very popular with children of all ages.
evp	imaginative	adjective	2	C1	able to create new and interesting ideas or things	He's a very
imaginative little boy.	She is a very imaginative girl and she always invents new games for our children, so that they have never felt bored in her presence.
evp	imagine	verb	1	B1	to form an idea or picture of something in your mind	Imagine Bob when he was young - that's what John looks like.	Just imagine the sun, the sea and all that fun on the beach.
evp	imagine	verb	2	B1	to have an idea of what something is like or might be like	Imagine how it feels to be away from home for the first time.	You can't imagine how tired I am.
evp	imagine	verb	3	B1	to think that you hear or see something that does not really exist	"Did you hear a noise?" "No, you're imagining things."	I turned back but I didn't see anyone, so I thought that I had imagined it.
evp	imagine	verb	4	B2	to guess that something is probably true or real	I imagine they charge extra for dessert.	I imagine that the watch is in your bedroom.
evp	imitate	verb	1	C1	to copy the way someone or something looks, sounds, or behaves	My four-year-old
daughter is always trying to imitate her older sister.	Although not all celebrities are so altruistic, it is true that those who take action stimulate their followers to imitate them.
evp	imitation	noun	1	C2	a copy of something that is made to look like the real thing	It wasn't a genuine designer handbag, just a cheap imitation.	The word spread out so fast that the vast majority of people ended up purchasing genuine Versace jeans or even cheap imitations just to catch up with the fashion.
evp	immature	adjective	1	C2	behaving in a way that is childish and not in the emotionally well-developed way people expect from someone your age	Some of the kids are so immature - they're always doing silly things and don't pay attention.	You might regard me as an immature, seventeen-year-old girl for I like decorating my diary.
evp	immediate	adjective	1	B2	happening or done without delay or very soon after something else	The directors have demanded his immediate resignation.	I hope you will give this matter your immediate attention.
evp	immediate	adjective	2	B2	important now and needing attention	We have no immediate plans.	It can't be an immediate objective, of course, but we mustn't give up.
evp	immediate	adjective	3	C1	closest to something or someone	There are stores, movie theaters, parks, schools - all
right in the immediate area.	In the first place, there are beautiful landscapes in the immediate vicinity of both hotels.
evp	immediately	adverb	1	A2	now or without waiting or thinking about something	We really ought to leave immediately.	Can you send me it immediately?
evp	immediately	adverb	2	C1	next to something, or close to something in time	Milton Street is on the left, immediately after the bank.	Tickets are on the ground floor, immediately to your right when you have entered the building.
evp	immense	adjective	1	C1	extremely large	This computer can store an immense amount of data.	Another reason for the immense popularity of shopping as a leisure activity is economics.
evp	immensely	adverb	1	C1	extremely	Country music is immensely popular.	People who were previously nothing more than peasants grew immensely rich, while the former aristocracy of land owners lost its dominant position.
evp	immigrant	noun	1	B2	someone who comes to live in a different country	My grandparents arrived here as immigrants from Russia in
1910.	Leonardo is an Italian immigrant who has a restaurant near the primary school.
evp	immigration	noun	1	B1	the place where people's official documents are checked when they enter a country at an airport, port, border, etc.	After you've been through immigration (control), you can go and get your luggage.	The immigration officers looked at her as if she was suspected of doing something wrong.
evp	immigration	noun	2	B2	when someone comes to live in a different country	immigration policy	[T]he purpose of the party is to give a treat to my family members, as my immigration into New Zealand is approved.
evp	imminent	adjective	1	C2	coming or happening very soon	A rain storm
was imminent.	How to cope with this now demographic development and the imminent dangers?
evp	immoral	adjective	1	B2	morally wrong	immoral behavior	At this time - the early 20's -, tango was considered an immoral type of music; but Carlos Gardel changed this belief.
evp	immortal	adjective	1	C2	living or lasting forever	Teenagers think they are immortal.	Biotechnology seems to be the key to all the yet unsolved problems humans are facing. It might even make us immortal.
evp	immortal	adjective	2	C2	famous or remembered for a very long time	In Yogi Barra's immortal words: "You can observe a lot by watching."	In the immortal words of the bard "... if music be the food of love....... play on!"
evp	immune	adjective	1	C2	not affected by a particular type of behavior or emotion	He is immune to flattery.	Bad news on the other hand is so common that in order to cope with it, we simply ignore it - we have become immune to bad news, and television, radio stations and newspapers are aware of it.
evp	immune system	noun	1	C2	the cells and other parts of the body that work together to protect the body against infection	Healthy eating will help boost your immune system.	When you have lupus, your immune system produces antibodies against your own vital organs.
evp	impact	noun	1	B2	the effect that a person, event or situation has on someone or something	These charges will have a damaging impact on the
governor’s reputation.	I could live without watching TV, but it would make a serious impact on my life.
evp	impact	noun	2	C2	the force or action of one object hitting another	The impact of the crash reduced the car to a third of its original length.	
evp	impact	verb	1	C1	to affect something or someone	Rising interest rates are sure to impact (on) the housing market.	Those extra calories, the fat and salt in our food and the decrease in vitamin rich food, impacts on our health.
evp	impatience	noun	1	C2	when someone is impatient	His impatience was obvious.	She remained silent for a while, taking no notice of my growing impatience.
evp	impatient	adjective	1	B2	easily annoyed by someone's mistakes or because you have to wait	He's a good teacher, but he can be impatient with slow learners.	Hours passed and she became impatient and thought he had forgotten about their date.
evp	impatient	adjective	2	B2	wanting something to happen as soon as possible	He's got a lot of exciting ideas and he's impatient to get started.	I'm impatient to discover this country.
evp	impatiently	adverb	1	B2	in an impatient way	"Yes, you said that before," she said, impatiently.	I hope you will come soon because we are all impatiently waiting for your talk.
evp	imperative	noun	1	B2	the form of a verb which is usually used for giving orders	In the phrase "Leave him alone," the verb "leave" is an imperative/is in the imperative.	
evp	imperative	adjective	1	C2	When an action or process is imperative, it is extremely important that it happens or is done.	It is imperative (that) I speak with him at once.	It was imperative to see her father again and confront him with the truth.
evp	imperfect	adjective	1	C1	not perfect and with some mistakes	an imperfect solution	It goes without saying that native speakers are the best to talk to when learning the language (of course, if they don't mind your practicing your imperfect English on them.)
evp	impersonal	adjective	1	C1	not showing any interest or feeling	He sent me a cold and impersonal letter.	To sum up, the only thing we can do is to find out a way to survive in such an impersonal working environment and create a more friendly and intimate atmosphere as before.
evp	implement	verb	1	B2	to make an idea, system, law, plan, etc., start to happen or operate	The bill that would implement tax reforms was not passed.	Rare species protection, on the other hand, can be implemented, e.g., by means of wildlife reserves and national parks.
evp	implementation	noun	1	C2	the process of putting a plan or system is put into operation	Implementation of the new computer system went smoothly.	I think that the development and implementation of new energy-saving technologies may contribute significantly to the prevention of further air, water and soil pollution.
evp	implication	noun	1	C1	a result or effect that seems likely in the future	What are the implications of the new regulations?	Another implication of this fashion change in Japanese society is perhaps the liberation of our spirits.
evp	implication	noun	2	C2	a suggestion of something that you make without saying it directly	The implication was that the school had to do much better or it would be closed.	In spite of that, the implication that famous sportsmen are worth paying more than other famous people, for example well-known scientists, is an over-simplification.
evp	implication	noun	3	C2	the involvement of someone with something bad	His career was ruined by his implication in the financial scandal.	I even thought that the maid could have taken it off my desk and used it as fuel for the boiler, but I checked with her and she denied any implication in the disappearance of the diary.
evp	implicit	adjective	1	C2	suggested but not stated directly	an implicit threat	There was an implicit social code, which influenced people's relationships.
evp	imply	verb	1	C2	to suggest or show something, without saying it directly	He implied (that) the error was mine.	I am not implying that the other options will not be to our advantage but I think that this one is what we really need.
evp	imply	verb	2	C2	to involve
something as a necessary part or condition	Democracy implies free elections.	Such mergers do unfortunately imply a massive loss of jobs, not only in Europe but also all over the world.
evp	imply	verb	3	C2	used to show that the name of something tells you something about it	A "suggested price" is, as the name implies, the sale price suggested by the manufacturer.	Sour Sweet, as the name implies, is originally a Chinese restaurant.
evp	impolite	adjective	1	B2	not polite	It is impolite to point at people.	Besides, the serving speed was too slow and some waiters were even impolite to customers.
evp	import	verb	1	B2	to buy or bring in products from another country	We import a large number of cars from Japan.	Moreover they say we must be independent of the Near East countries from whom we import oil.
evp	import	noun	1	C1	a product that is imported from another country	food/oil imports	In my opinion, one of the reasons for these changes is that our country became wealthier after World War II, which led to an increase in food imports.
evp	import	noun	2	C2	the activity of importing something into a country	The FDA oversees the import of seafood, fruits, and vegetables.	One of them, which is the most important for a government, is the import of foreign money.
evp	importance	noun	1	B1	how important someone or something is	Your views are of great importance to us.	Now I know the importance of electricity.
evp	important	adjective	1	A1	valuable, useful or necessary	It’s important to tell the doctor all your symptoms.	This is not important for me.
evp	important	adjective	2	B1	having a lot of power, influence or effect	He was one of the most important writers of that period.	Tom was a director of a very important company in Mexico.
evp	importantly	adverb	1	B2	in a way that is important	She has a pleasant personality, but more importantly, she is well
qualified for the job.	Lastly, and most importantly, what is the cost?
evp	impose	verb	1	C1	to create a rule, tax, law, etc., and force people to accept it	The city imposed a ban on outdoor water use during the drought.	First of all, I believe that the local administration should impose some sort of regulations, so that the traditional architecture will be respected.
evp	impose	verb	2	C1	to force someone to accept something, especially a belief or way of living	Settlers often imposed their culture on indigenous peoples.	Above all, never allow others to impose their ideas on you.
evp	impossibility	noun	1	C2	when something is impossible	What you're asking just can't be done - it's an impossibility.	Simple tasks like watching television or listening to music become an impossibility when every five minutes or so they get drowned in a sea of noise.
evp	impossible	adjective	1	B1	If an action or event is impossible, it cannot happen or be done.	It’s almost impossible to
get them to agree on anything.	I tried to find it but it was impossible!
evp	impossible	adjective	2	C2	very difficult to deal with	Traffic at rush hour is just
impossible.	I couldn't help laughing at the impossible situation that had resulted from the combination of my personal musings by the side of this wishing-well, and the boy's very straightforward and impulsive character.
evp	impress	verb	1	B2	to cause someone to admire or respect you	She impressed us with her
sincerity.	All groups did their best to impress the public and every group played professionally.
evp	impressed	adjective	1	B2	feeling admiration or respect for someone or something	I was impressed by her professionalism.	I am really impressed by your offer to paint me.
evp	impression	noun	1	B2	an idea, feeling or opinion about something or someone	I get the impression
that he’s rather shy.	You can look back fifty years to get an impression of what changes have happened.
evp	impression	noun	2	B2	the way that something seems, looks or feels to a particular person	All our warnings made little impression on him.	I was afraid of being late or saying something wrong because I really wanted to make a good impression on this man.
evp	impression	noun	3	B2	to think or understand a particular stated thing	I was under the impression (that) you didn't get on too well.	I am under the impression that people generally exercise a little, but if they eat the wrong food every day, it won't help.
evp	impressive	adjective	1	B2	Someone or something that is impressive makes you admire and respect them.	She's a very impressive public speaker.	I think that the Westfield Music Festival was really impressive.
evp	imprison	verb	1	C1	to put someone in prison or keep them as a prisoner	Taylor was imprisoned in 2005 for burglary.	DMX was a criminal and was imprisoned.
evp	imprisonment	noun	1	C2	the action of putting someone in prison, or keeping someone in prison	We were shocked by the imprisonment of the young students.	The reason for More's imprisonment was his refusing to swear to the Act of Succession.
evp	improve	verb	1	A2	to get better or to make something better	Her health has improved.	I always love studying History and I'm sure I will improve my vocabulary and English Grammar.
evp	improved	adjective	1	B2	better than before	A new and improved version of this software was released last week.	The improved economic condition gave us the possibility to buy one or more cars for each family and this results in other big problems.
evp	improvement	noun	1	B1	progress in becoming better, or when something has been made better	We are seeing significant improvements in test scores.	Just twenty to thirty minutes riding every day gives you a considerable improvement in your general state of health.
evp	improvement	noun	2	B1	a change to something that makes it better	home/road/transportation improvements	It is very important to make improvements to the student library in our college.
evp	impulse	noun	1	C2	a sudden feeling that you must do something, without thinking about the results	Her first impulse was to run away.	He is, therefore, a sort of intellectual and represents the force of reason as opposed to the violent impulses of the other boys.
evp	impulse	noun	2	C2	suddenly and without thinking first	I tend to act on impulse.	I'm seeing Milly as a capricious girl who, like most teenagers, enjoys buying, although I think that she buys on impulse.
evp	impulsive	adjective	1	C2	Impulsive people do things suddenly, without planning or thinking carefully, because they want to.	I thought she seemed very bright, but also impulsive and unpredictable.	On the other hand Lily is more impulsive and energetic. At the beginning she reacts better than Mui because she faces straight away the problems.
evp	in	adverb	1	A2	into an area or space from the outside of it	Could you bring the clothes in for me?	First I brought in the big cake that my father had bought]
evp	in	adverb	2	B1	at the place where a person usually lives or works	Mr Ellis isn't in this week.	We go in at 8[:]15.
evp	in	adverb	3	B1	having arrived at the place where people can get on or off	What time is Roz's flight due in?	
evp	in	adverb	4	B2	given or sent to someone official in order to be read	When does your essay have to be in?	
evp	in	noun	1	C2	the details of a particular subject	the ins and outs of the legal system	I knew all the ins and outs of every story but I couldn't stay one single day in bed without reading it.
evp	inability	noun	1	C1	lack of ability to do something	I'm concerned about our inability to find someone for this job.	The Arnewood's inability to cater for special diets gives the Lawson House the upper hand, since there are 3 vegetarians coming along.
evp	inaccuracy	noun	1	C1	something such as a statement or number that is not correct	The report contained many inaccuracies.	Apart from these inaccuracies, the group members have a lot of complaints.
evp	inaccurate	adjective	1	B2	not correct or exact	inaccurate information	Due to your inaccurate information, I was late and missed part of the show.
evp	inadequate	adjective	1	C1	not good enough or too low in quality	Our equipment is totally inadequate for a job like this.	First of all, I found the seats inadequate and my seat belt was broken.
evp	inadequate	adjective	2	C1	not enough	inadequate funds	So, the inadequate number of computers could not cover students' needs.
evp	inappropriate	adjective	1	C1	not suitable	inappropriate behavior/comments	Regarding video facilities, most students characterized them as a nice choice generally, but were not satisfied with the equipment, which they found rather poor and inappropriate.
evp	inappropriately	adverb	1	C1	in a way that is not suitable	The meeting was inappropriately handled and an argument broke out.	For instance, the refreshment tent was inappropriately located, making it difficult for the participants to reach it.
evp	incentive	noun	1	C2	something that encourages you to act in a particular way	People had little incentive to save.	Not surprisingly, they value financial rewards over other kinds of incentives.
evp	inch	noun	1	B1	a unit used for measuring length that is approximately equal to 2.54 centimeters, sometimes shown by the symbol ″	Twelve inches are equal to one foot.	He was one inch tall with strange clothes.
evp	incident	noun	1	B2	an event, usually one that is either unpleasant or unusual	an isolated/separate/serious incident	After that incident I never cheated again and I never talked to that teacher again.
evp	incidentally	adverb	1	C1	used to introduce something additional that is not as
important or to introduce something new	Incidentally, she was a very popular mayor.	Incidentally, there is another big Turkish Bath in Ginarah.
evp	inclination	noun	1	C2	what you usually are like or prefer, or the feeling that makes you want to do something	Tony has a strong inclination toward the arts.	Young people do not have any opportunity to find out their inclinations and improve their skills as far as art is concerned.
evp	include	verb	1	A2	to contain something or someone as a part, or to make something or someone part of something	The bill includes tax and tip.	It includes some songs.
evp	inclusion	noun	1	C1	when you include someone or something, especially in a group, amount, or event	Her self-portrait was chosen for inclusion in the exhibition.	In basketball, for instance, changes in the most important competitions, such as the inclusion of foreign players, have given players the opportunity to be successful not only in their country but also worldwide.
evp	income	noun	1	B2	money that you earn by working, investing, or producing goods	Average incomes have risen by 4.5% over the past year.	When you are a student, you don't have any income.
evp	inconceivable	adjective	1	C2	impossible to imagine	It's not inconceivable that soon most cars will be battery powered.	First of all, it is inconceivable that a young child should be raised almost without his/her parents, surrounded by myriad toys, gadgets and games instead.
evp	inconsiderate	adjective	1	C1	not caring about other people's situations or the way they feel	It was inconsiderate of you to keep everyone waiting.	Some of the tenants have been very inconsiderate in discarding their garbage on the back stairway and blocking the fire exits.
evp	inconvenience	noun	1	C1	something that is causing difficulty and is annoying, or an annoying situation	The manager apologized for the inconvenience.	I am sorry for any inconvenience these requirements may cause to you.
evp	inconvenient	adjective	1	B2	involving or causing difficulty, such as unexpected changes or effort	I'm sorry, I seem to have called at an inconvenient time.	Please call him and make an alternative arrangement if it is inconvenient for you.
evp	incorporate	verb	1	C2	to include something as part of another thing	He began to incorporate dance and mime into his plays.	These are just some of the ideas that I feel can be incorporated into your project.
evp	incorrect	adjective	1	B1	not correct	an incorrect answer	Dear Sir or Madam, I am writing to you concerning some incorrect information about Lampton that I have found in the Student Tourist Guidebook.
evp	increase	verb	1	B1	to get bigger or to make something bigger in amount or size	Sales of laptops have increased over the last few years.	It is amazing how the violence in Rio increased in these last few years.
evp	increase	noun	1	B2	a rise in the amount or size of something	price/tax increases	Since bicycles became so popular, there has been an increase in the number of accidents.
evp	increase	noun	2	C1	If something is on the increase, it is happening more often.	Homelessness is on the increase in many
cities.	[The] number of motorists is on the increase everywhere in the world.
evp	increasingly	adverb	1	B2	more and more	to be increasingly important/common	Among them are the increasingly popular reality shows and all the daily news about gossip and scandal.
evp	incredible	adjective	1	B1	very good, exciting or large	We had an incredible time that summer.	The weather here is incredible and we have the most beautiful beaches in the world, in my opinion.
evp	incredible	adjective	2	B2	impossible, or very difficult, to believe	It seems incredible that no one complained.	It was incredible but it was true.
evp	incredibly	adverb	1	B2	extremely	I think the team played incredibly well.	It was incredibly crowded.
evp	incredibly	adverb	2	C1	in a way that is difficult to believe	Incredibly, no one was hurt.	Incredibly, and against all my expectations, everything started going wrong from the very beginning.
evp	incur	verb	1	C2	to lose money, owe money, or have to pay money because of something that has happened	The company incurred huge losses as a result of its investments.	One of the principal problems is that governments all around the world are incurring great costs in order to maintain a national health system.
evp	incurable	adjective	1	C2	impossible to cure	an incurable disease	Most of the incurable illnesses of the past are no longer a threat, which means that the people live longer and longer than they used to.
evp	indeed	adverb	1	B1	really or certainly, often used to emphasize something	Indeed, it could be the worst environmental disaster in Western Europe this century.	Thank you very much indeed.
evp	indeed	adverb	2	C2	used when you say more to support or develop what has already been said	For such creatures speed is not important, indeed it is counterproductive.	It would be very difficult to define a country's culture by choosing only one characteristic of that country; indeed, it is a great variety of things such as language, politics, religion, customs, etc. that shape the culture of every country.
evp	indefinite article	noun	1	B1	the grammatical name for the words "a" and "an" in English or words in other languages that have a similar use		
evp	indefinitely	adverb	1	C2	for a period of time for which no end has been fixed	His visit has been postponed indefinitely.	Each one of them tries so painfully to hide away the natural feelings emanating from within. But it is simply impossible to do so indefinitely.
evp	independence	noun	1	B2	when someone looks after themselves and does not need money, help or permission from other people	It's important that parents should allow their children some independence.	If you follow my instructions, you'll achieve financial independence sooner than you would have thought.
evp	independence	noun	2	B2	when a country has its own government and is not ruled by another country	Mexico gained its independence from Spain in 1821.	[After] gaining back our independence after the First World War[,] some bright urban ideas came across.
evp	independent	adjective	1	B1	not taking help or money from other people	Grandma's very independent and does all her own shopping and cooking.	I'm an independent person, and I like to be.
evp	independent	adjective	2	B2	not influenced or controlled in any way by other people, events or things	an independent inquiry/organization	Although the variety of films you display is good, there is still a group of independent films you always seems to skip.
evp	independent	adjective	3	B2	An independent country is not governed or ruled by another country.	Belize became fully independent from Britain in 1981.	After 1918, our city again became the capital of an independent state.
evp	independently	adverb	1	B2	in a way that is independent	The two scientists both made the same discovery independently, at roughly the same time.	What students should understand is the existence of links among apparently different subjects and the impossibility of studying them independently or, worse] studying one and neglecting the others.
evp	index	noun	1	C1	an alphabetical list, such as one printed at the back of a book showing which page a subject, name, etc. is found on	Try looking up "heart disease" in the index.	The negative point of the book was its lack of an index.
evp	indicate	verb	1	B2	to say something or give a signal to show what you mean or what you intend to do	Please indicate which free gift you would like to receive.	Please, indicate if you could attend. I am looking forward to your reply.
evp	indicate	verb	2	C1	to show that something exists or is likely to be true	Recent evidence indicates that the skeleton is about 3 million years old.	In fact, the study also indicates that time spent on watching TV has surged, especially during the last decade.
evp	indication	noun	1	C1	a sign showing that something exists or is likely to be true	The jury
gave no indication of their decision as they came back into the courtroom.	[A]ll three categories show an indication of cutbacks compared to last year.
evp	indication	noun	2	C2	a sign showing what someone means or what they intend to do	Helen's face gave no indication of what she was thinking.	Rumor had it that Peter secretly brought roses early every morning to her doorstep, as an indication of his love for her.
evp	indicator	noun	1	C2	something that shows what a situation is like	Commodity prices can be a useful indicator of inflation.	The right-wing thinkers claim that unemployment is one of the indicators in the economy, displaying lack of balance between industrial output and citizens' demands.
evp	indifference	noun	1	C2	when you do not care about something or have any particular opinions about it	an air of indifference	On the other hand, there were some voices expressing their indifference towards money.
evp	indifferent	adjective	1	C2	not caring about or interested in someone or something	They are indifferent to the plight of the unemployed.	Being a resident of our area yourself, you may not be entirely indifferent to the plans of the local authorities concerning the construction of a new supermarket.
evp	indirect	adjective	1	C1	not directly caused by or connected with something	Indirect effects of the fighting include disease and food shortages.	At school, children should follow many rules. For example, they should finish their homework and respect other students' opinions. From these experiences, children can experience social life in indirect ways, and can learn how to be good members of society.
evp	indirect	adjective	2	C2	done or caused in a way that is not obvious	indirect costs	Do people seem to be the direct cause of this damage or do they also play an indirect part in generating environmental catastrophe?
evp	indirectly	adverb	1	C1	in a way that is not direct	She still controls the company indirectly, through her son.	Here we make use of rain water, which is indirectly produced by evaporation of sea water by heat produced by the sun.
evp	indispensable	adjective	1	C2	completely necessary	an indispensable tool/guide	We should not be led to believe that computers are the indispensable ingredient to our well-being, though neither should we deny their wide-ranging potential.
evp	indisputable	adjective	1	C2	obviously and certainly true	an indisputable fact	Taking all the aforementioned into consideration, I adamantly believe that the contribution of reading to all aspects of our lives is indisputable.
evp	individual	adjective	1	B1	considered separately from the other things in a group	Say the individual letters of each word out loud.	Well, this place is a group of small individual islands and there are[n't] many things that you can do in the capital city as it's so small and crowded.
evp	individual	adjective	2	B1	given to or relating to one particular person or thing	We deal with each case on an individual basis.	The first lesson started with an individual presentation.
evp	individual	noun	1	B2	a person, especially when considered separately and not as part of a group	We try to treat our students as individuals.	I can work as part of a team but also as an individual.
evp	individual	noun	2	C2	a person with a particular characteristic	a ruthless individual	I can understand that he is nervous and that he has turned into a selfish individual who only cares about himself.
evp	individuality	noun	1	C2	the quality of being different from others	The houses had no character and no individuality.	As an intellectual, he refuses to annihilate his individuality and degenerate into savagery.
evp	individually	adverb	1	C1	separately rather than with others	I spoke to them all individually.	This has the additional advantage that students can work individually on what seems to be most necessary for them.
evp	indoor	adjective	1	A2	happening, used or situated inside a building	indoor sports/activities	We played a lot of indoor games at the party.
evp	indoors	adverb	1	B1	into or inside a building	Come indoors, it's cold outside.	I love being indoors, eating or watching TV.
evp	indulge	verb	1	C2	to let yourself do or have something that you enjoy but which may be bad for you	When I get my first paycheck I’m going to indulge in a
shopping spree.	Eating disorders of various kinds are certainly not unknown to our culture, yet we seem to be less concerned about what we shouldn't do than what we tend to indulge ourselves in.
evp	indulge	verb	2	C2	to let someone do or have what they want	She indulged the kids and let them stay up late.	In an attempt to give them instant gratification, their parents do their utmost to fulfill their wishes and as a consequence of this, children become utterly indulged.
evp	industrial	adjective	1	B2	connected with industry, or having a lot of industry and factories, etc.	industrial expansion	I am sure that both ideas will improve the look of our industrial town.
evp	industrialization	noun	1	C1	the process of developing industries in a country	Japan's rapid industrialization	With industrialization and economic development, Hong Kong people's standards of living have also improved dramatically.
evp	industrialized	adjective	1	C1	Industrialized countries have a lot of industry.	the industrialized nations	The role of women has changed during the past 100 years but there are still a lot of changes needed not only in developing countries but also in industrialized countries like Germany.
evp	industrious	adjective	1	C2	Industrious people work hard.	He is good at his work and very industrious.	The society wouldn't be as advanced as it is unless we had well educated, efficient and industrious workers.
evp	industry	noun	1	B1	the people and activities involved in one type of business	the gas/electricity industry	As you know, I would like to work in the tourism industry, so I thought this course could be good to improve my English.
evp	industry	noun	2	B2	the production of goods in factories	trade and industry	If you are interested in local industry, there is the Prefectural Local Industry museum.
evp	inedible	adjective	1	C1	not suitable for eating	The meat was inedible.	The fruit was rotten, the sandwich inedible.
evp	inefficient	adjective	1	C1	Inefficient people or things waste time, money or effort, and do not achieve as much as they should.	an inefficient heating system	The room-service was inefficient and the rooms were small and uncomfortable.
evp	inequality	noun	1	C2	when some groups in a society have more advantages than others	social/racial inequality	She was surrounded by poverty and inequality and grew more and more dissatisfied with the Government's policies, whether internal or foreign.
evp	inevitable	adjective	1	C1	certain to happen and unable to be avoided or prevented	The accident was the inevitable consequence/result/outcome of carelessness.	Strikes always cause some problems but sometimes they are inevitable.
evp	inevitably	adverb	1	C1	in a way that cannot be avoided	Their arguments inevitably end in tears.	Should you, my humble reader, happen to reach fame and fortune, try never to forget that appearing always as an ordinary human being would inevitably grant you more empathy from the people surrounding you.
evp	inexpensive	adjective	1	B1	cheap but of good quality	inexpensive children's clothes	It has far more advantages than the countryside, starting with the excellent accommodation, which is inexpensive and easy to find.
evp	inexperienced	adjective	1	B2	without much experience or knowledge of something	Abigail Kennedy was young and inexperienced.	The advertisement said that Danny Brook was one of the starring actors but he was replaced by another extremely disappointing and inexperienced actor.
evp	inexplicable	adjective	1	C2	so strange or unusual that you cannot understand or explain it	To me his behavior was totally inexplicable.	Although for inexplicable reasons she can be really stubborn sometimes, I admire her courage to admit her mistakes and apologize.
evp	infancy	noun	1	C2	when you are a baby	Their fourth child died in infancy.	When the Romans conquered the world, the child death rate was much higher than now and those who survived infancy hardly ever got beyond forty years of age.
evp	infancy	noun	2	C2	Something that is in its infancy has only just begun to develop.	In the 1950s, space travel was in its infancy.	
evp	infant	noun	1	C2	a baby or very young child	Mothers and infants were allowed to board the plane first.	The cells are extremely active while we are infants, but as we grow older, their efficiency weakens.
evp	infect	verb	1	C1	to give someone a disease	Thousands of people were infected with the virus.	Furthermore, most times the hotels expel their waste to the sea and they pollute the water. Consequently, a lot of people have been infected by different kinds of ailments.
evp	infect	verb	2	C1	If a computer virus infects a computer, it harms it	My computer was infected by a virus.	With CLEAN-MAIL, you can protect your computers from getting infected with viruses effectively: virus-mails are deleted before they even arrive at your mailbox.
evp	infect	verb	3	C2	If a place, wound, or substance is infected, it contains bacteria or other things that can cause disease.	The wound became infected.	Let's try to think to that poor people they caught it in a hospital because they need blood and doctors gave them infected blood without knowing it.
evp	infection	noun	1	B2	a disease in a part of your body that is caused by bacteria or a virus	a serious infection	He told me that she was suffering from a kidney infection.
evp	infectious	adjective	1	C2	An infectious disease can be passed from one person to another.	Hepatitis is an infectious disease.	For example, epidemics of major infectious diseases like cholera or meningitis carry the risk of transferring the focus of infection to any part of the world.
evp	infectious	adjective	2	C2	Infectious laughter or feelings quickly spread from one person to another.	infectious enthusiasm	I have found that feelings and emotions are infectious and people tend to be happier with people who are fun-loving and take life less seriously.
evp	infer	verb	1	C2	to guess that something is true because of the information that you have	I inferred from the number of cups that he was expecting visitors.	From the above, it can be inferred that the major causes of land degradation vary according to regions.
evp	inferior	adjective	1	C1	not good, or not as good as someone or something else	I've never felt inferior to anyone.	Young girls often feel inferior to boys in the same class.
evp	inferior	noun	1	C2	someone who is considered to be less important than other people	She considered me her inferior.	Broadly speaking, he appears to be an inferior, a non-human, in the opinion of the other boys.
evp	inferiority	noun	1	C2	when someone feels they are not as good as other people or when something is not as good as another thing	With these talented sisters, I always had a feeling of inferiority.	Critics suggest that these policies have not benefited poor black Americans, that they have impeded the development of social problems and that they have inhibited black Americans and other discriminated groups through a deep sense of inferiority.
evp	infinite	adjective	1	C2	extremely large or great	an infinite variety/number of options	In the hands of an expert, a computer can be used for an infinite number of things.
evp	infinitely	adverb	1	C2	very or very much	Travel is infinitely more comfortable now than it used to be.	To sum up, I would like to say that instead of engaging in relentless debates about the problem it would be infinitely preferable to take action as soon as possible.
evp	infinitive	noun	1	B1	the basic form of a verb that usually follows "to"	In the sentences "I had to go" and "I must go," "go" is an infinitive.	
evp	inflation	noun	1	B2	the rate at which prices increase, or a continuing increase in prices	high/low inflation	In this country of high inflation we could save some money.
evp	influence	noun	1	B2	the power to affect how someone thinks or behaves, or how something develops	The drug companies can have a lot of influence on doctors.	Today's computers have a massive influence on the whole of society.
evp	influence	noun	2	B2	If someone or something is a bad/good influence on someone, they have a bad/good effect on them.	Television can be a bad influence on children.	Some people say that cell phones are a bad influence on the younger generation.
evp	influence	verb	1	B2	to affect or change how someone or something develops, behaves or thinks	Were you influenced by anybody at the beginning of your career?	Our life has been influenced by modern technology.
evp	influential	adjective	1	C1	having a lot of influence	an influential figure in modern jazz	Although not being directly involved in global politics anymore, he is still a very powerful and influential person.
evp	influx	noun	1	C2	the arrival of a lot of people or things at the same time	The town’s economy depends on the summer influx of tourists.	Countries are known mainly for their history, that is why there is an influx of tourists in places with historical interest.
evp	inform	verb	1	B1	to tell someone about something	If he calls me again, I shall inform the police.	This letter is to inform you that I will not be able to attend tomorrow's class due to medical issues.
evp	inform	verb	2	B1	to give someone information about something	Patients should be informed about the risks.	Anyway, once a month I read gossip magazines and every day I read newspapers to be informed.
evp	informal	adjective	1	B2	not formal or official	The two groups agreed to hold an informal meeting.	The dress-code is informal but neat and there'll be plenty of drinks and snacks.
evp	informally	adverb	1	C1	in an informal way	It's an outdoor party, so dress informally.	We dress casually and very informally and you often see body piercings and tattoos being displayed around the place.
evp	information	noun	1	A2	facts about a situation, person, event, etc.	to find out/get information	For other information call me on 753784
evp	informative	adjective	1	C1	containing a lot of useful facts	a very informative lecture	There were presentations from many different industries, some of them very informative and entertaining.
evp	infrastructure	noun	1	C1	the basic systems and services, such as transport and power supplies, that a country or organization uses in order to work effectively	The war has badly damaged the country's infrastructure.	It is very easy to build homes but at the same time forgetting to upgrade the infrastructure and facilities.
evp	ingredient	noun	1	B1	a food that is used with other foods in the preparation of a particular dish	The list of ingredients included 1/2 cup of almonds.	The chef had used good, fresh ingredients.
evp	ingredient	noun	2	B2	one of the parts of something successful	Trust is an essential ingredient in a successful marriage.	In my opinion it is clear that with these "ingredients" you can make an interesting video about daily life at our school.
evp	inhabit	verb	1	C2	to live in a place	an area inhabited by artists and writers	Uncountable species inhabit this vast territory of impenetrable, deep forest.
evp	inhabitant	noun	1	B2	a person or animal that lives in a particular place	a city of 5 million inhabitants	I think that the town has about 2000 inhabitants in winter.
evp	inherent	adjective	1	C2	existing as a natural and basic part of something	The desire for freedom is inherent in all people.	However, it is important to bear in mind the inherent pressures that come with fortune and fame.
evp	inherit	verb	1	C2	to receive money or possessions from someone after that person has died	Who will inherit the house when he dies?	I wouldn't mind if it was just a scratch to any other piece of furniture, but I couldn't contain myself when my mother burst into tears looking at a broken leg of an antique chair inherited from my grandfather.
evp	inherit	verb	2	C2	to have the same physical or mental characteristics as one of your parents or grandparents	Miranda has inherited her father's red hair.	Her grandparents were from Sweden, and she had inherited blond hair and blue eyes from them.
evp	inheritance	noun	1	C2	money or possessions that becone yours after someone dies	Nick has sold off much of his inheritance.	He went to Oxford and by the time he was forty he had set up a good textile factory in London with his inheritance.
evp	inhibition	noun	1	C2	a feeling of embarrassment or worry that prevents you from saying or doing what you want	The whole point about dancing is to lose all your inhibitions.	Secondly, parents are the closest and most easily accessible wealth of knowledge. Children lose their inhibitions and freely ask their curious questions.
evp	inhuman	adjective	1	C2	extremely cruel	the inhuman treatment of prisoners	Not very long ago, when some of us thought it wasn't possible anymore, the same terrible inhuman mistakes as in the past were happening]
evp	initial	noun	1	B1	the first letter of a name, especially when used to represent a name	He wrote his initials, P.M.R., at the bottom of the page.	It was black and my initials were inside it.
evp	initial	adjective	1	B2	first, or happening at the beginning	My initial reaction was one of anger.	All this may seem trivial and unimportant to an ordinary man addicted to his TV-set, forgetting the initial impulse that made him choose this way of life]
evp	initially	adverb	1	B2	at the beginning	Initially, most people approved of the new plan.	He initially disagreed with his wife but after much persuasion, he finally gave in.
evp	initiate	verb	1	C2	to make something begin	The reforms were initiated by Gorbachev.	I hope the college will initiate interesting new courses, regardless of financial issues, to promote a good image.
evp	initiative	noun	1	C1	a plan or activity that is done to solve a problem or improve a situation	a new government initiative to reduce crime	Any government as well as grass root initiative will have an effect on pollution problems, but firstly, we need to change our society's overall mentality.
evp	initiative	noun	2	C1	the ability to make decisions and do things without needing to be told what to do	We need someone who can work on their own initiative.	It is difficult to judge whether you show more initiative than the others or not.
evp	initiative	noun	3	C1	to be the first person to do something that solves a problem or improves a situation	Jackson had taken the initiative and prepared a report.	I took the initiative to contact Sue Wilton, who is the manager of the restaurant "El Plato".
evp	injection	noun	1	C2	when someone puts a drug into your body using a needle	an injection of insulin	This visit was only to be the beginning of it all, as numerous trips to the hospital, fertility clinics, pills and injections soon became a part of their lives together.
evp	injection	noun	2	C2	when a large amount of money is provided for a plan, service, organization, etc.	The university has welcomed the $5 million cash injection.	There are few areas such as the information technology, library resources and overseas visits, that need this financial injection.
evp	injure	verb	1	B1	to hurt a person, animal or part of your body	A bomb exploded at the embassy, injuring several people.	Nobody from my family was injured, so that was one good piece of news.
evp	injured	adjective	1	B2	hurt or physically harmed	She was told to stay in bed to rest her injured back.	Zoos can take care of injured animals and help them.
evp	injury	noun	1	B2	damage to someone's body in an accident or an attack	a head/back/knee injury	Then I understood that nobody was seriously hurt but we all had some injuries.
evp	injury	noun	2	C2	to make someone's bad situation worse by doing something else to upset them	To add insult to injury, we had to pay for the damage!	To add insult to injury, such an approach often turns out to be counterproductive.
evp	injustice	noun	1	C1	a situation or action in which people are treated unfairly	the fight against racial injustice	Adults enjoy the stories too, because it somehow reflects the society that we live in, and how justice is always on the stronger side than injustice.
evp	ink	noun	1	B1	a colored liquid that you use for writing, printing, or drawing	a bottle of ink	Her father had shown her once how to write with an invisible ink.
evp	innate	adjective	1	C2	An innate quality or ability is one that you were born with, not one you have learned.	He has an innate desire to win.	His innate ability to act as a motivator for other people has helped him obtain excellent leadership skills.
evp	inner	adjective	1	B2	on the inside or near the middle of something	Leading off the main hall is a series of small inner rooms.	Even in the inner city, streets are dark and don't give the feeling of safety after sunset.
evp	inner	adjective	2	B2	Inner feelings or thoughts are ones that you do not show or tell other people.	Sarah always seemed to have a deep sense of inner peace.	Every now and then everybody feels an inner call for changes, and one of those changes might be a journey somewhere in the world.
evp	innocence	noun	1	C1	when someone is not guilty of a crime	She pleaded her innocence, but no one believed her.	They were released after seven years in jail and were determined to prove their innocence and find the real murderer.
evp	innocence	noun	2	C2	when someone does not have much experience of life and does not know about the bad things that happen	the innocence of childhood	From the day we're born, our awareness of the world and its people increases. With it comes knowledge and capability but also the loss of innocence.
evp	innocent	adjective	1	B2	not guilty of committing a crime	He firmly believes that she is innocent of the crime.	The plan works: the jury thinks that the wife is a notorious liar and her husband is found innocent.
evp	innocent	adjective	2	B2	not having much experience of life and not knowing about the bad things that can happen	an innocent young woman	She is so innocent and doesn't understand anything which is happening around her]
evp	innocent	adjective	3	B2	used to emphasize that someone who was hurt had done nothing wrong	Several innocent civilians were killed in the bombing.	While Jem was stealing horses, his brother was a murderer of innocent people.
evp	innocent	adjective	4	C2	not intended to harm or upset anyone	It was an innocent mistake.	On the spur of the moment, I advised him to try it and that's what turned an innocent episode into a nightmare.
evp	innocently	adverb	1	B2	in an innocent way	"Have I done something wrong?" she asked innocently.	Denny had innocently turned on the light to see if there was anything of interest in the other room.
evp	innovation	noun	1	C1	a new idea or method that is being tried for the first time, or the use of such ideas or methods	the latest innovations in education	There was a barrage of creativity and innovation rarely seen in human history.
evp	innovative	adjective	1	C1	using new methods or ideas	The new owners introduced
a number of innovative solutions.	Problems like this will probably appear again and again but we have to believe that they can be solved in an innovative way.
evp	innumerable	adjective	1	C2	very many, or too many to count	innumerable problems	Modern aviation also created innumerable benefits for the people in general.
evp	input	noun	1	B2	ideas, money, effort, etc. that you put into a process or acitivity in order to help it succeed	Input from students is used to develop new and exciting courses.	I could go on but my intention was to give you some input to stimulate your brain!
evp	input	noun	2	B2	information that is put into a computer or the act of putting information into a computer	Data input is carried out by a team based overseas.	
evp	inquire	verb	1	B2	to ask for information	Should I inquire about the price of tickets?	"Say Mary, when did the war begin?" inquired the old lady.
evp	inquiry	noun	1	B1	a question that you ask when you want more information	I've made some inquiries about the cost of a round-the-world ticket.	From what I understand from your inquiry you are looking for a babysitter to take care of three children aged 8, 6 and 3 on Saturday evenings and o]ccasionall on Sunday afternoons.
evp	inquiry	noun	2	C2	an official process to discover the facts about something bad that has happened	a judicial inquiry	I am very much surprised that such problems had not been foreseen by the public inquiry.
evp	inquiry	noun	3	C2	the process of asking questions in order to get information	Inquiry into the matter is pointless - no one will tell you anything.	Upon inquiry, it became clear it was in Tim's possession, more precisely in his diary.
evp	insane	adjective	1	C1	very silly or stupid	an insane decision	It was an insane idea to accommodate me so far away from the school (approximately four miles).
evp	insane	adjective	2	C2	seriously mentally ill	a hospital for the criminally insane	It seemed as if she had become insane but it was only a way of surviving an impossible situation.
evp	insect	noun	1	A2	a small creature with six legs, for example a bee or a fly	Ants, beetles, butterflies and flies are all insects.	[T]here are a lot of butterflies in the park, and they are beautiful insects.
evp	insecure	adjective	1	C1	having no confidence in yourself and what you can do	a shy, insecure teenager	People felt insecure and nervous, their morale went down.
evp	insecure	adjective	2	C2	not safe or protected	Many of our staff are worried because their jobs are insecure.	
evp	insecurity	noun	1	C2	the state of not being confident or not feeling safe	We have to live with the insecurity of not knowing if we'll still have a job next week.	Many of us have experienced moments of insecurity when everything seems so big and new that you wonder if you can deal with all the pressure or whether you will eventually manage to adapt to the situation at hand.
evp	insensitive	adjective	1	C1	not noticing or not caring about other people's feelings	an insensitive remark	This way of thinking is very important because a person who spends a lot of time alone can become self-cent[e]red and insensitive to others.
evp	inseparable	adjective	1	C2	Two things that are inseparable are so closely connected that you cannot consider them separately.	Rossetti's work was inseparable from his life.	The memory and the experience you have of the object create a special bond between you and the object, and the bond makes you inseparable from the object because you are inseparable from the memory.
evp	inseparable	adjective	2	C2	People who are inseparable are always together because they are such good friends.	The two girls got on very well and soon became inseparable.	We were inseparable pals playing that favorite game of ours day and night.
evp	insert	verb	1	C1	to put something into something else	Insert the coin in the slot.	You just insert the CD-ROM; the rest will happen automatically.
evp	insert	verb	2	C1	to add something to the middle of a document or piece of writing	He inserted a new paragraph.	In the future it will be possible to buy paintings via the internet. The prices will be inserted under each painting.
evp	inside	adverb	1	A2	in or into a room, building, container, etc.	I'm freezing, let's go back inside.	We can stay inside and play with the computer.
evp	inside	adverb	2	B2	If you have a feeling inside, you have a feeling although you might not show it to other people.	She couldn't cope with the grief she felt inside.	They had to go to the vet more often but it wasn't hard for them because of the love that they felt inside.
evp	inside	adjective	1	B2	in or on the part of something under its surface	He put the documents carefully in his inside pocket.	At first Chris didn't seem to recognize him, but as soon as he did, his hand reached into his inside pocket.
evp	inside	adjective	2	C2	information that is only known by people who are part of an organization, group, etc.	I needed someone with inside knowledge to back up my story.	I'm pretty sure that getting in touch with the customs and lifestyle of another country will open a completely new horizon to the students and they'll be enchanted by the 'inside knowledge' they will be able to gain.
evp	inside	noun	1	B2	the inner part, space or side of something	Did you clean the inside of the car?	Anyway, after the show I felt hungry so I went to the restaurant but it was closed because they were having the inside altered.
evp	inside	noun	2	B2	If a piece of clothing is inside out, the part that is usually outside is on the inside.	She had her sweater on inside out.	
evp	inside	noun	3	C1	to know everything about something	He knows the system inside out.	The participants got to know Britain inside out and they are happy with the knowledge they gained.
evp	insight	noun	1	C1	the ability to understand what something is really like, or an example of this	The book gives a fascinating insight into the world of art.	Special courses were offered, which provided deep insights into fascinating topics - they were great fun.
evp	insignificant	adjective	1	C1	not important or large enough to consider or worry about	insignificant differences	Second, the "sudden downpour of rain" you reported and which "ruined" the show was actually a short and insignificant one that only lasted a few minutes.
evp	insist	verb	1	B1	to demand that something must be done or that you must have a particular thing	He insists we leave at 8:30.	But if they insist, you should listen to them because our parents love us and they want the best for us.
evp	insist	verb	2	B2	to say firmly that something is true	Greg still insists (that) he did nothing wrong.	Mrs. McGillicuddy saw a woman being strangled o] a train and, in spite of everybody seeming not to believe her, she insisted that she was right and, with her friend's help, proved it.
evp	insist	verb	3	C1	to keep doing something, even if it annoys other people or people think it is not good for you	She insists on cooking all her own meals.	Young people often insist on doing everything on their own and consider advice almost an attack on their personal opinion.
evp	insomnia	noun	1	C2	when you find it difficult to sleep	Many people suffer from insomnia.	If we take the example of the politicians, we will find that those who are honest are the ones who suffer from insomnia (caused by threats and worries) while the most corrupt ones are safe asleep.
evp	inspect	verb	1	C1	to look at something or someone carefully in order to discover information, especially about their quality or condition	After the crash, both drivers got out and inspected their cars for damage.	I invite you to inspect our facilities so that you can persuade yourself about the lack of equipment.
evp	inspection	noun	1	C1	an official look to check that something is correct, legal, or in good condition	Fire officers carried out an inspection of the building.	According to the contract signed with your company on September 25th 2008, an inspection of the goods was done at the time of the packing.
evp	inspection	noun	2	C2	when you look at something carefully	On closer inspection, the painting was discovered to be a fake.	
evp	inspector	noun	1	B2	someone whose job is to check that things are being done correctly	a health/safety inspector	My grandfather was a ticket inspector and he was always telling incredible stories about the old times when train was the fastest way of traveling.
evp	inspector	noun	2	B2	a police officer of high rank		As you know I am a police inspector.
evp	inspiration	noun	1	B2	someone or something that gives you ideas for doing something	The golden autumn light provided the inspiration for the painting.	Working with children makes me happy and gives me inspiration.
evp	inspiration	noun	2	C2	to be so good that someone else admires you and is encouraged by your behavior	The way she has dealt with her illness is an inspiration to us all.	She will always be an inspiration to me for her great strength, knowledge and courage.
evp	inspiration	noun	3	C2	a sudden good idea about what you should do	I've had an inspiration about Andy's birthday present.	
evp	inspire	verb	1	B2	to make someone feel that they want to do something and can do it	A drama teacher at school had inspired Sam to become an actor.	This has inspired me to finally write to you and ask if there is a possibility for me to join the painting course this spring.
evp	inspire	verb	2	B2	to make someone have a particular feeling or reaction	He inspires great loyalty in his staff.	In today's world where everybody is selfish, it is hard to find a person to admire, a role model to be inspired by.
evp	inspire	verb	3	B2	to give someone an idea for a book, play, painting, etc.	This television drama was inspired by a true story.	Most of her books are inspired by her life in Bulgaria and the adventures she had herself.
evp	install	verb	1	B1	to put a computer program onto a computer so that the computer can use it	Andrew, can you help me install this software?	We have learned how to install components like a Soundboard or a CD-Rom drive.
evp	install	verb	2	B1	to put a piece of equipment somewhere and make it ready for use	The plumber is coming tomorrow to install the new washing machine.	On my third day I helped them to install the sound system.
evp	installation	noun	1	C1	the process of putting new equipment into position	Do you have to pay extra for installation?	Last but not least, students asked for the installation of a beverage machine - that would be really convenient for them.
evp	installation	noun	2	C1	the process of putting a computer program onto a computer	the installation of new software	Personally, I believe that the installation of the Japanese Word version could considerably improve the efficiency of my work.
evp	instant	adjective	1	B2	happening immediately, without any delay	This type of account offers you instant access to your money.	Therefore, the reception should be functional for students, that is, the students should get an instant answer when they have a question.
evp	instantly	adverb	1	B2	immediately	Both drivers were killed instantly.	To talk to a friend from another city or country instantly online is really nice and exciting.
evp	instead	adverb	1	A2	in place of someone or something else	There's no coffee - would you like a cup of tea instead?	I don't want to use the dark blue paint. I am going to use the sky-blue paint instead.
evp	instinct	noun	1	C2	the way someone naturally reacts or behaves, without having to think or learn about it	a mother's instinct to protect her children	Unfortunately, there is a tendency for parental protection, which is a natural instinct of any parent regarding the safety of one's child.
evp	institute	noun	1	B2	an organization where people do a particular kind of scientific, educational or social work, or the buildings which it uses	the Massachusetts Institute of Technology	With this jump she would raise money for a cancer institute in London.
evp	institution	noun	1	B2	a large and important organization, such as a university or bank	a medical/educational/financial institution	Firstly, it's important to gain information about the institution where we want to work.
evp	institution	noun	2	B2	a building where people are sent so they can be looked after, for example a prison or a hospital	a young offenders' institution	I was working for a social institution that looks after poor children.
evp	institution	noun	3	C2	a custom that has existed for a long time	the institution of marriage	Nowadays, the institution of marriage seems to be coming back into fashion, and many youngsters who regrd themselves as mature experience wedlock at an increasingly early age.
evp	instruct	verb	1	C1	to officially tell someone to do something	Employees are instructed not to use the telephones for personal calls.	We were instructed to pack all our belongings in the boxes that were provided by your company as well as bubble wrap all furniture as per the instructions.
evp	instruct	verb	2	C2	to teach someone about something	She is there to instruct people in the safe use of the gym equipment.	He instructed her in Chinese boxing, pretending that she was a male, and she spent five years of her childhood performing hard exercises, while Mui was playing with other girls.
evp	instructor	noun	1	B1	someone who teaches a particular sport or activity	a driving instructor	There are professional instructors working in this club.
evp	instrument	noun	1	A2	an object that is used for playing music, such as a piano, guitar or drum	They all brought musical instruments with them.	I play two instruments, so I can help you with the concert, playing guitar or keyboard.
evp	instrument	noun	2	C1	a tool that is used for doing something	scientific instruments	You can also see Roman medical instruments and tools, for example a pioneer axe and different knives.
evp	instrument	noun	3	C2	someone or something that is used for achieving something	The Internet is a very powerful instrument of communication.	This mechanical dog, harmless when not powered, is an instrument of repression and terror.
evp	insufficient	adjective	1	C1	not enough	insufficient information	In contrast to your brochure, we did not have any special entertainment at the hotel and the dinner was insufficient in terms of not only its quality but also the quantity.
evp	insult	noun	1	B2	a rude and offensive remark or action	They were shouting insults at each other.	Joko's mother would hurl insults at the poor old man, calling him sick and hoping that he'd die soon.
evp	insult	noun	2	C2	to make someone's bad situation worse by doing something else to upset them	To add insult to injury, we had to pay for the damage!	To add insult to injury, such an approach often turns out to be counterproductive.
evp	insult	verb	1	B2	to say or do something to someone that is rude and offensive	How dare you insult me in front of my friends!	After all, in insulting the performers you insult their fans...
evp	insurance	noun	1	B2	an agreement in which you pay a company money and they pay your costs if you have an accident, injury, etc.	life/health/car/travel insurance	Lastly, could you please tell me what kind of clothes I should prepare and whether I have to buy insurance myself?
evp	insure	verb	1	B2	to make something certain to happen	Please insure that your name is at the top of your examination paper.	So in my opinion we can accept keeping animals in zoos but only if we insure them good living conditions and we do not want to gain profits above all.
evp	intact	adjective	1	C2	not damaged or destroyed	Many of the old buildings are still intact.	I am fortunate that my grandmother kept it intact in her attic until I discovered it two years ago.
evp	integral	adjective	1	C1	necessary and important as part of something	The Internet has become an integral part of modern life.	Over the last few years, computers have become an integral part of our lives.
evp	integrate	verb	1	C1	to become part of a group or society, or to help someone do this	After a few weeks of training he was fully integrated into the team.	I am a determined, spontaneous person and I have the ability to integrate well.
evp	integration	noun	1	C1	when things or people are mixed, joined or combined	cultural integration	This may be explained by the increasing number of exchanges in the European Union, and the stronger economic integration of European Countries.
evp	integrity	noun	1	C2	honesty and the ability to do or know what is morally right	a woman of great integrity	This growing shopping mania is also said to create an increasingly materialistic society, hence, our children grow up forgetting the basic values of life - simplicity, integrity, humility and plain hard work.
evp	intellect	noun	1	C2	the ability to learn and understand something, and to form ideas, judgments, and opinions about what you have learned	His energy and intellect are respected by many people.	When I am alone, or in "qualified" company, I may listen to music of a sort that appeals to my intellect as much as to my emotions.
evp	intellectual	adjective	1	B2	relating to your ability to think and to understand things, especially complicated ideas	intellectual and physical development	First of all, I don't think your programme needs any improvement: in my opinion, your selection of films is already very satisfying because it includes both spectacular Hollywood movies and intellectual films.
evp	intellectual	adjective	2	C2	interested in learning and in thinking about complicated ideas	She's very intellectual.	He made a good impression on her from the beginning, dressed in a dark blue evening suit, with a patterned bow tie, glimmering leather shoes and flashing spectacles that made him look very intellectual.
evp	intellectual	noun	1	C2	someone who enjoys studying and thinking about complicated ideas	She was a real intellectual.	As an intellectual and thinker (the glasses Piggy wears stand for these attributes), he is admired by Ralph, the chief.
evp	intellectually	adverb	1	C2	in a way that relates to your ability to think and to understand things	She's hoping to find a job that is more demanding intellectually.	Some people complain that they do not have enough time to develop intellectually when they are in their 20s or 30s because they have to take care of their small children.
evp	intelligence	noun	1	B2	the ability to learn, understand and think about things	an intelligence test	The dominant species among animals are pigs with their superior intelligence.
evp	intelligent	adjective	1	B1	showing intelligence, or able to learn and understand things easily	a highly intelligent young man	I've met my English teacher - she's very friendly and, I think, very intelligent.
evp	intend	verb	1	B1	to have as a plan or purpose	We intend to go to Australia next year.	I intend to invite many friends who were in the same university, but nobody knows this news, so I want to surprise them.
evp	intend	verb	2	C1	to be made, designed, or provided for a particular person or purpose	The book is intended for anyone who wants to learn more about the Internet.	There are various pieces of software intended for off-line use on the market.
evp	intense	adjective	1	C1	extreme or very strong	intense heat/pain	Most of the rooms we stayed in did not have air-condition[ing], which caused many sleepless nights for the majority of us due to the intense heat.
evp	intense	adjective	2	C2	Intense people are very serious, and usually have strong emotions or opinions.	He's always been very intense.	I admire people with heart and soul, with that real charisma which can only blossom in highly intelligent and spiritual people - this is what we call 'intense personality'.
evp	intensely	adverb	1	C2	extremely	Her book is intensely personal.	The sky was intensely blue.
evp	intensely	adverb	2	C2	with strong, serious emotions	She stared at me intensely.	She wanted so intensely that her wish should be fulfilled.
evp	intensely	adverb	3	C2	fully, or with great concentration, effort, or attention	He focused intensely on the sheet of music before him.	She looked more intensely at her reflection and suddenly realized that it really did not matter whether or not a friend of hers found her diary.
evp	intensify	verb	1	C2	to become greater, more serious, or more extreme, or to make something do this	The fighting has intensified in the last two weeks.	This feeling is intensified when the relationship between Jack and Ralph develops to antagonism.
evp	intensity	noun	1	C2	the quality of being felt strongly or having a very strong effect	the intensity of the blaze	As soon as a ray of light reaches the inside of the seashell, it sparkles with an intensity that nearly hurts your eye.
evp	intensive	adjective	1	B2	involving a lot of effort or activity in a short period of time	two weeks of intensive training	I am 23 years old and speak English fluently due to my intensive study of the language.
evp	intensively	adverb	1	C1	in way that involves a lot of work in a short period of time	I spent three weeks working intensively on my thesis.	Grammar, listening and writing were taught adequately, but less intensively than speaking.
evp	intent	noun	1	C2	when you want and plan to do something	It had not been his intent to hurt anyone.	I would suggest some recommendations on how to improve the service of this library with the intent of attracting more people.
evp	intent	noun	2	C2	in all the most important ways	To all intents and purposes, the project was a disaster.	To all intents and purposes, the qualities needed to achieve success are based on the same ideas.
evp	intent	adjective	1	C2	to be determined to do or achieve something	She seems intent on winning this year's tennis tournament.	It is a venue intent on showing alternative music.
evp	intention	noun	1	B2	something that you want and plan to do	It wasn't my intention to exclude her from the list - I just forgot her.	I was very pleased to hear from your club, because it was always my intention to join such a group and make music with other people.
evp	interact	verb	1	B2	to talk and do things with other people	At school, teachers said he interacted well with other students.	People say that when you use a computer you get addicted and don't interact with people.
evp	interaction	noun	1	C1	the activity of talking and doing things with other people, or the way you do this	Our work involves a lot of interaction with the customers.	The interaction between the different groups in the Big Brother house is also very entertaining.
evp	interactive	adjective	1	B2	Interactive computer games, programs, etc. involve the user by reacting to the way they use them.	an interactive game	In addition, you can play with several interactive games and learn about the rules of the Olympic Games.
evp	interactive	adjective	2	C1	involving communication between people	interactive teaching methods	But I hope you don't mind me suggesting that you should try do these talks in smaller groups, so they'll become more interactive and even more interesting.
evp	interest	noun	1	B1	the feeling of wanting to give your attention to something or of wanting to discover more about it	I've always had an interest in astronomy.	Well, really I don't have much interest in clothes.
evp	interest	noun	2	B1	something that you enjoy doing, studying or experiencing	On his form he lists his interests as cycling, the cinema and cooking.	In your next letter tell me about your hobbies and interests.
evp	interest	noun	3	B1	the quality that makes you think that something is interesting	Nothing much of interest was
discussed.	We visited the Eiffel Tower and lots of other places of interest.
evp	interest	noun	4	C1	money which is charged by a bank or other financial organization for borrowing money	Interest charges on credit cards are can be very high.	Extremely high interest rates and high unemployment were a fatal combination for many families.
evp	interest	noun	5	C1	money that you earn from keeping your money in an account in a bank or other financial organization	You should put the money in a savings account where it will earn interest.	
evp	interest	noun	6	C1	to help someone and give them an advantage	It may not be in your interest to change jobs so soon.	It is in my interests to meet new people and I find it easy to go and talk to people I do not know.
evp	interest	noun	7	C2	in order to achieve a particular situation or quality	In the interest of safety, passengers are advised to wear their seat belts at all times.	First of all, do make sure that the front door is always locked. In the interests of everybody's security, it is essential to remember this]
evp	interest	noun	8	C2	something that gives someone or something an advantage	A union looks after the interests of its members.	I realize that you are trying to serve your customers the best way you can, but you might want to consider the interests of the people who live in this area.
evp	interest	noun	9	C2	a situation where someone cannot make fair decisions because they are influenced by something	She resigned from the committee because of a conflict of interest.	It could become a conflict of interest, but he never lets it.
evp	interest	verb	1	B1	If someone or something interests you, you want to give them your attention and discover more about them.	Sports have never really interested me.	Fortunately I saw an advertisement for a job i] the local newspaper that might interest you.
evp	interested	adjective	1	A2	wanting to give your attention to something and discover more about it	He didn't seem very interested in what I was saying.	I'm very interested in sports.
evp	interesting	adjective	1	A1	Someone or something that is interesting keeps your attention because they are unusual, exciting, or have a lot of ideas.	She's quite an interesting woman.	I like reading interesting books in the Library.
evp	interestingly	adverb	1	C1	used to introduce information that you think is
surprising and interesting	Interestingly, he never
actually said that he was innocent.	Russians today prefer fast food due to a rapid lifestyle. Interestingly, this refers only to lunch time; about 80% of Russians will prefer eating a traditional Russian meal for dinner.
evp	interfere	verb	1	B2	to try to control or become involved in a situation, in a way that is annoying	I know he's worried about us, but I wish he wouldn't interfere.	I would like to stress that very often famous people become reserved, bad-tempered and angry with the world for interfering in their lives.
evp	interfere	verb	2	C1	to prevent something from working effectively or from developing successfully	I try not to let my dancing classes interfere with my schoolwork.	The best time would be in the evening so it does not interfere with classes.
evp	interference	noun	1	C1	when someone tries to interfere in a situation	There have been claims of too much political interference in education.	The famous have all their gestures watched and judged. How can anyone live with so much interference?
evp	interference	noun	2	C2	noise or other electronic signals that stop you from getting good pictures or sound on a television, radio, telephone, etc.	Your computer is causing interference - when you turned it on the radio started buzzing.	As for the latter, when low flying aircraft are approaching or overflying we are not able to hear or watch anything because these aircraft cause a lot of interference and distortion.
evp	interim	adjective	1	C2	temporary and intended to be used or accepted until something permanent exists	an interim solution	
evp	interior	noun	1	B2	the inside part of something	The real estate agent had pictures of the house from the outside but none of its interior.	The interior is quite modern and clean.
evp	intermediate	adjective	1	B1	between the highest and lowest levels of knowledge or skill	There are three levels of difficulty in this game: low, intermediate and high.	My level is intermediate.
evp	intermission	noun	1	B1	a short period of time between the parts of a play, performance, etc.	The show "Zorro" had only one intermission of 20 minutes.	
evp	internal	adjective	1	B2	existing or happening inside a person, object, organization, place or country	He sustained injuries to his arms, legs and several internal organs.	She met with an accident and this damaged her internal organs.
evp	internally	adverb	1	C1	inside a person, object, organization, place or country	This medicine is for external use only and should not be taken internally.	I am actually very interested in taking the course, because recently I have changed my job and one of my functions is to create a page on the intranet to share information about the company internally.
evp	international	adjective	1	A2	relating to or involving two or more countries	international politics	Go to the international museum, it's wonderful.
evp	internationally	adverb	1	B1	in many countries	Her internationally acclaimed novel has won several literary prizes.	This film was directed by Yasujino-Ozo, who is internationally famous, although his film is very Japanese.
evp	the Internet	noun	1	A1	the system that connects computers all over the world and allows people who use computers to look at websites	I found out about the book on the Internet.	She uses the Internet every day.
evp	interpret	verb	1	B2	to change what someone has said into a different language	We had to ask the guide to interpret for us.	My boss decided it wa] high time I tried to interpret for him outside our office.
evp	interpret	verb	2	C1	to decide what the intended meaning of something is	It's difficult to interpret these statistics without knowing how they were obtained.	Musicians try to interpret it, but admittedly they will never find the whole meaning of it.
evp	interpretation	noun	1	C2	an explanation or opinion of what something means	traditional interpretations of the Latin text	Yet this raises the question of the actual effect travel has on our understanding and interpretation of the world outside our country, as well as on the idea we have of our country itself.
evp	interpretation	noun	2	C2	the way someone performs a particular play, piece of music, etc.	a beautiful interpretation of Swan Lake	Every time I think of this memorable day, I wish I could thank my host-family over and over again since then - little did I know that I would be accepted at Paris' Conservatory a few months later, thanks to my interpretation of Mozart's concerto!
evp	interrupt	verb	1	B1	to stop someone while they are talking or doing something, by saying or doing something yourself	She tried to explain what had happened but he kept interrupting her.	Her thoughts were interrupted by Ben, who asked if she wanted to go for a walk with him.
evp	interrupt	verb	2	B2	to stop something from happening for a short period	We had to interrupt our trip when we heard John's mother was sick.	Don't you fear that you might get ill if you don't interrupt your work for a meal and for some hours of sleep or a short walk?
evp	interruption	noun	1	B2	when an action or activity is interrupted, or something that interrupts someone or something	There were so many interruptions, I couldn't get on with my work.	I stayed two or three minutes in the darkness thinking that it was only a brief interruption, but it was not the case.
evp	interval	noun	1	C2	a period of time between two actions, activities, or events	After an interval of three days, the peace talks resumed.	When we adopt this perspective, we witness history becoming enmeshed with our present and future, as all cyclical events repeat themselves at regular intervals.
evp	intervene	verb	1	C2	to become involved in a situation in order to try to stop a fight, argument, problem, etc.	Government officials refused to intervene in the recent disputes.	While an old cynic like Bismarck might not have approved of intervening in the Balkans, even he should see the point of this.
evp	intervention	noun	1	C2	when someone intervenes, especially to influence what happens	Without medical intervention, the child would have died.	I write to seek your intervention in a matter that has seriously impacted on the reputation of your retail business.
evp	interview	noun	1	B1	a meeting in which someone asks you questions to see if you are suitable for a job or course	a job interview	I have to go to a job interview which I'm looking forward to]
evp	interview	noun	2	B1	a meeting in which someone is asked questions about themselves for a newspaper article, television show, etc	an exclusive interview with Paul Simon	The column also has interviews with a couple of different artists.
evp	interview	verb	1	B1	to ask someone questions in an interview	We've had 200 applicants for the job, but we only plan to interview about 20 of them.	We had to interview our partner and to present him to the class.
evp	intimate	adjective	1	C2	private and personal	intimate details of her family life	Finally, we have to take into consideration that cultural and educational development opens the path for learning and becoming conscious of our intimate feelings and personality and helps us to become better people.
evp	intimate	adjective	2	C2	having a special relationship with someone who you like or love very much	an intimate friend	Finally, before 5 am the couple leaves the party (in desperate need of rest] and so do their intimate friends and family.
evp	intimate	adjective	3	C2	If a place or event is intimate, it is small in a way that feels comfortable or private.	an intimate hotel	The dining room is small and intimate, allowing a relaxed and personal atmosphere, which is highlighted by the soft, Indian background music and the dimmed lights.
evp	intimate	adjective	4	C2	when you know all of the facts about something or about how it works	He has an intimate knowledge of the area.	The fact that Sinclair spends most of his weekends hiking is easily understood through his intimate knowledge of wilderness lore, of which tidbits pop up now and then in the text.
evp	intolerable	adjective	1	C2	too bad or unpleasant to deal with or accept	an intolerable situation	The situation has become absolutely intolerable.
evp	intolerance	noun	1	C2	when someone is intolerant	He spoke out against racism and intolerance.	The process of mutual understanding that emerges from this contact can help solve one of the greatest problems facing mankind, the ethnic, racial or religious intolerance that plagues different parts of the world.
evp	intolerant	adjective	1	C2	refusing to accept any opinions, beliefs, customs, etc., that are different from your own	She can be very intolerant of other people's opinions.	Right now, tolerance and understanding come very naturally to me, in contrast with the narrow-minded, intolerant attitude I had to share when I had hardly ever gone beyond the limits of my home town.
evp	intransitive	adjective	1	B2	An intransitive verb does not have an object.	In the sentence '"I tried to persuade him, but he wouldn't come'", "come" is an intransitive verb.	
evp	intriguing	adjective	1	C2	very interesting	an intriguing story	Only a minority of our citizens make regular use of the library, either by enjoying a quiet few minutes to scour the bookshelves for an intriguing story to keep them going through the next rainy weekend or by reading one of the numerous newspapers on display.
evp	intrinsic	adjective	1	C2	An intrinsic quality or thing forms part of the basic character of something or someone.	Drama is an intrinsic part of the school curriculum.	Working is an intrinsic part of human nature, without which life may be unthinkable for some of us.
evp	introduce	verb	1	B1	to tell someone another person's name the first time that they meet	I'd like to introduce my younger son, Mark.	We were introduced to each other and we talked about our home countries.
evp	introduce	verb	2	B2	to make something exist, happen or be used for the first time	Ice skating, as an Olympic competition, was introduced in 1908.	Mr. Dixon, you and your staff have already introduced a number of alterations that have improved the interior of the building.
evp	introduce	verb	3	C2	to tell an audience who is going to speak to them or perform for them	I'd like to introduce Rachel Elliott who is our speaker this evening.	
evp	introduction	noun	1	B2	the action of telling someone another person's name the first time that they meet	You'll have to do/make the introductions - I don't know everyone's name.	As we didn't know each other, the meeting started with the introduction of everybody.
evp	introduction	noun	2	B2	the opening text of a book, speech, article, etc.	Read the introduction to the article and decide what it will be about.	Report introduction: The purpose to this report is to give suggestions of how to make the reception area more welcoming for everyone.
evp	introduction	noun	3	B2	when you make something exist, happen or be used for the first time	The introduction of new working practices has dramatically improved productivity.	With the introduction of the computer, we can now access the Internet to communicate with our relatives and friends living abroad.
evp	introduction	noun	4	B2	a book or course which provides basic knowledge about a subject	an introduction to psychology	Please send me some information about your club and tell me about courses like "[an] introduction to flying".
evp	introduction	noun	5	C1	the first time someone experiences something	It was our first introduction to great poetry.	In 1998 it was the first introduction to home internet access and as we can see from the chart, less than 10% of people had one at home.
evp	introvert	noun	1	C2	someone who is quiet and shy and prefers to be alone	He's quite an introvert.	As an introvert, he had some problems with airing his opinions but when it came to competing with others he was the best.
evp	intrude	verb	1	C2	to become involved in a situation which people want to be private	I don't mean to intrude, but are you okay?	The fact is that raising a child is a strictly personal matter and also a demanding task nowadays and no one can intrude on a family's privacy, to influence its decision.
evp	intruder	noun	1	C2	someone who enters a place where they are not allowed to be, often to commit a crime	I heard intruders at the back of the house.	The Police Department did accept that the Jouzalez house was not robbed, but only showed signs of mess and disorder, as if the intruders were looking for something specific, for a certain document.
evp	intruder	noun	2	C2	someone who goes to a place or becomes involved in a situation where others do not want them	I felt like an intruder at their dinner table.	Hooper considered the newcomer to be an intruder, to be subtly persecuted.
evp	intrusion	noun	1	C2	when someone becomes involved in a situation which people want to be private	She could not bear the intrusion into her private life.	Agatha lay underneath her covers dreading the moment when some intrusion might force her to leave the sanctuary of her four-poster bed.
evp	intuition	noun	1	C2	the feeling that you know something without being able to explain why	Her approach to childcare is based on intuition.	But Roger had repeatedly told Lindsay that he was innocent, and her intuition told her that he wasn't lying.
evp	invade	verb	1	B2	to enter a country by force in order to take control of it	Concentrations of troops near the border look set to invade within the next few days.	Hitler invaded France.
evp	invade	verb	2	C1	to enter a place in large numbers	Every summer the town is invaded by tourists.	As tourists invade us in large hoards, the menace of destroying the green values of our land appears.
evp	invade	verb	3	C2	to try to learn things about someone's private life when they do not want you to	They were fed up with journalists invading their privacy.	He would never invade our privacy or force us to talk about our problems.
evp	invade	verb	4	C2	to become a part of someone's life without them asking for or wanting the involvement	Computers are invading our lives.	The biggest one, the computer, has invaded our life and changed the whole rhythm.
evp	invaluable	adjective	1	C1	extremely useful	Her contacts proved invaluable to the company.	These materials will be an invaluable source of information for our students.
evp	invariably	adverb	1	C2	always	The train is invariably packed.	Nevertheless, there is invariably an exception to the rule.
evp	invasion	noun	1	B2	when an army enters a country by force in order to take control of it	They were planning to mount an invasion of the north of the country.	Then, we went to the North of D[e]nmark to see what remains of the Viking invasions.
evp	invasion	noun	2	C2	becoming involved in someone's private life when they do not want you to	These phone calls to my home are an invasion of my privacy.	
evp	invasion	noun	3	C2	when people enter a place in large numbers	Every year, there is an invasion of tourists.	The invasion of tourists seems to take away some of the place's privacy and it can even destroy its usually peaceful environment.
evp	invent	verb	1	B1	to design or create something which has never existed before	The first safety razor was invented by company founder King C. Gillette in 1903.	Lots of different and important things were invented during the 20th century, but I believe that the most important one is the computer.
evp	invent	verb	2	B2	to think of a story or explanation in order to deceive someone	But I didn't invent the story - everything I told you is true.	We knew that our parents wouldn't let us travel alone so we had to invent a story to avoid them realizing what happened.
evp	invention	noun	1	B1	something which has been designed or created for the first time, or the act of creating or designing something	The world changed rapidly after the invention of the telephone.	I think that the television is one of the most amazing inventions ever.
evp	inventor	noun	1	B2	someone who designs and makes new things	He was the inventor of the vacuum cleaner.	Thomas Al[v]a Eddison []is probably the greatest inventor of all time with [1093] patents.
evp	invest	verb	1	B2	to give money to a bank, business, etc., or buy something, because you hope to get a profit	The institute will invest 5 million in the project.	However, you could invest the extra money in the infrastructure.
evp	invest	verb	2	B2	to use a lot of time, effort, or emotions because you want to succeed	You have all invested significant amounts of time and energy in making this project the success that it is.	So, investing a bit of time and care on yourself might be the reason for your 90th birthday party!
evp	investigate	verb	1	B2	to try to discover all the facts about something, especially a crime or accident	Police are investigating allegations of corruption involving senior executives.	John, who was the husband of Julia, went to his office and started investigating the kidnapping.
evp	investigation	noun	1	B2	when officials try to discover all the facts about something, especially a crime or an accident	to carry out/hold an investigation	After a month[-long] investigation of the environment, I found we still don't do enough to protect the environment.
evp	investigator	noun	1	B2	a person whose job is to examine a crime, accident, etc. in order to discover the truth	Investigators have studied the possible effects of contamination.	My name is Jacques Martinov, and I am a private investigator.
evp	investment	noun	1	B2	the money that you put in a bank, business, etc. in order to make a profit, or the act of doing this	Stocks are regarded as good long-term investments.	For example, i] I want to organize my investments, I can use a suitable computer program for it.
evp	investment	noun	2	B2	something that you do or have, in order to have more in the future	Going to college is an investment in the future.	Of course I was able to purchase a second-hand one but I thought that it was a good investment to have a new computer provided with up-to-date software.
evp	investor	noun	1	B2	a person who puts money into a bank, business, etc.  in order to make a profit	A New York investor offered to acquire the company's stock for $13 a share.	This should be done by lowering taxes and preparing other incentives for potential investors.
evp	invisible	adjective	1	B2	impossible to see	The aircraft is designed to be invisible to radar.	[At] that moment I really wished I could disappear or become invisible!
evp	invitation	noun	1	A2	when someone invites you to do something or go somewhere	Thanks for the invitation to your birthday party.	Thank you for your invitation.
evp	invitation	noun	2	C2	something that is likely to cause a particular result, especially a bad one	Leaving your house unlocked
is an open invitation to burglars.	This was hard to resist for computer programmers who understood it as an invitation to try and fool the examiner with a cunning computer program.
evp	invite	verb	1	A1	to ask someone to come to a social event or to spend time with you socially	We're invited to Lola's party.	I'm really happy you invited me for dinner.
evp	invite	verb	2	C1	to ask someone to do something in a formal or official way	I was invited to appear on television.	We invite your newspaper to reconsider its position, hoping that the council will think about our proposals.
evp	invite	verb	3	C2	to do something that is likely to cause a particular reaction or result, especially a bad one	Unconventional ideas often invite attack/criticism.	
evp	involve	verb	1	B1	If a situation or activity involves something, that thing is a necessary part of it.	The trips often involve a lot of walking.	It is a competition for schools and it involves many kinds of sport.
evp	involve	verb	2	B1	to affect or include someone or something in an activity	The second accident involved two cars and a truck.	She had written me to tell me that our friends Todd and Alice had died in an strange accident that involved a vacuum cleaner.
evp	involve	verb	3	B2	to make someone be part of an activity or process	I prefer teaching methods that actively involve students in learning.	Trying to involve children and young people in general, interactive activities could be really successful.
evp	involvement	noun	1	B2	when someone or something is involved in an activity or event	The team's continued involvement in the competition is uncertain.	By reading we get a sort of personal involvement with the characters, it's as if it was our own story.
evp	iron	noun	1	B1	a dark grey metal used to make steel and found in very small amounts in blood and food	an iron bar	It wasn't very expensive because it was made of iron without any decoration, but it was important because she gave it to me before she died.
evp	iron	noun	2	B1	a piece of electrical equipment that you use for making clothes flat and smooth	a steam iron	For example, are there any people who want to buy an iron at midnight?
evp	iron	verb	1	B1	to make clothes flat and smooth using an iron	I need to iron a shirt to wear tomorrow.	I like wearing jeans because they are very comfortable, and are also easy to wash and to iron.
evp	ironic	adjective	1	C2	An ironic situation is strange because it is the opposite of what you would expect.	It's ironic that she was hurt by the very person she's trying to help.	As I used my stealth to move through the shadows, I thought it ironic that the rich man's expensive and probably imported carpets should assist me in keeping quiet.
evp	ironically	adverb	1	C2	used to emphasize that a situation is strange because it is the opposite of what you expected	Ironically, the only good book on this subject has gone out of print.	Either way, food is a big industry and a vital contributor to our culture, but ironically, food is also the biggest problem in the world.
evp	ironing	noun	1	B1	the activity of making clothes flat and smooth, using an iron	I must do some ironing tonight.	And I would like to do a little bit of work in your household like washing clothes, ironing and so on.
evp	irony	noun	1	C2	a situation that is strange because it is the opposite of what you expected	The irony is now that he's retired, he's busier than ever.	The irony of all this is the fact that she lives in the same house with Kingshaw and Hooper and she keeps being unable to notice what is really going on till the very end.
evp	irony	noun	2	C2	a type of humor in which people say the opposite of what they really mean	There is a lot of irony in his writing.	His strength lies in drawing exact pictures of the human mind by using extraordinary metaphors and idioms and describing our society with his never-ending tone of sarcasm and irony.
evp	irrational	adjective	1	C2	Irrational feelings and actions are based on your emotions and not on good reasons.	irrational behavior	It was an irrational fear, but try to explain this to a five-year-old girl who constantly dreamt about vampire dolls killing her while she was unable to move!
evp	irregular	adjective	1	B1	In grammar, an irregular verb, noun, adjective, etc. does not obey the usual rules for words in the language.	a table of irregular verbs	
evp	irregular	adjective	2	B2	Irregular actions or events happen with a different amount of time between each one.	They met at irregular intervals.	To make matters worse, the meal times are irregular, so as a result I am skinny.
evp	irregular	adjective	3	B2	not smooth or straight, or having parts that are different sizes	an irregular coastline	In my hurry, I never saw the irregular floor and I fell over]
evp	irresistible	adjective	1	C2	extremely attractive and impossible not to like or want	an irresistible smile	For instance, a perfume might make men irresistible to women, or vice versa.
evp	irresistible	adjective	2	C2	too powerful to control or ignore	irresistible pressure	From time to time we do feel an irresistible desire to get possession of something that is not a must. We are so tempted that we buy it.
evp	irresponsible	adjective	1	B2	not thinking about the possible bad results of what you are doing	irresponsible behavior	You can't always rely on the drivers, who are sometimes irresponsible and careless.
evp	irreversible	adjective	1	C2	Something that is irreversible cannot be changed back to how it was before.	irreversible damage to the heart/lungs	It is important to remember that everything done excessively can have irreversible consequences!
evp	irritable	adjective	1	C2	becoming annoyed very easily	Jack's been irritable all day.	Lord Trimingham remains calm throughout the story whereas Ted Burgess seems quite irritable and impulsive.
evp	irritate	verb	1	C1	to annoy someone	His comments really irritated me.	Children get hyperactive and irritate other passengers.
evp	irritated	adjective	1	B2	annoyed	Ben began to get increasingly irritated by/with her questions.	Tom noticed that she was irritated about something.
evp	irritating	adjective	1	B2	making you feel annoyed	an irritating habit	In conclusion, like all things in life, shopping can be pleasant or irritating depending on your patience and on your mood that day.
evp	irritation	noun	1	C2	the feeling of being annoyed, or something that makes you annoyed	minor
irritations	In the daytime, the noise leads to irritation.
evp	island	noun	1	A2	a piece of land completely surrounded by water	a desert island	I'm on the island of Aruba.
evp	isolated	adjective	1	C1	a long way from other places	an isolated village in the mountains	You might get lost in an isolated region without anyone to help you.
evp	isolated	adjective	2	C1	alone and not having help or support from other people	Kazuo felt very isolated at his new school.	Before you even know it, you'll feel isolated and alone because other people will have forgotten about you.
evp	isolated	adjective	3	C2	a case/event/example, etc. that happens only once	This robbery was not an isolated incident.	This is just an isolated example among an endless list.
evp	isolation	noun	1	C1	the state of being separate from other people, places, or things	the country's economic isolation from the rest of the world	Due to the isolation, the country had to feed itself with everything which was needed.
evp	isolation	noun	2	C2	alone, or separately from other people, places, or things	These poems cannot be considered in isolation.	In conclusion, it is my opinion that the problem of parking space cannot be solved in isolation.
evp	isolation	noun	3	C2	a feeling of being lonely	I had this awful sense of isolation.	Unemployment can lead to isolation.
evp	issue	noun	1	B1	a subject or problem which people are thinking and talking about	environmental/moral/personal issues	You're a student so this should be a very important issue for you.
evp	issue	noun	2	B2	the newspaper, magazine, etc. that is produced on a particular day/week/month	Have you seen the latest issue of Computer World?	Having seen your advertisement in the 4th issue of Asahi News, I hasten to write this letter.
evp	issue	noun	3	C1	to disagree with what someone says or writes	Isn’t the need to hire more staff
what’s really at issue here.	On behalf of the staff who worked for this event, I would like to take issue with the report's inaccuracies and unfair remarks.
evp	issue	noun	4	C2	most important in what is being discussed	The point at issue is what is best for the child.	I wouldn't like to fall into the trap of generalizing the matter at issue, but I believe there are two ways of traveling.
evp	issue	verb	1	C2	to officially say something or give someone something	The office will be issuing parking permits on Tuesday and Thursday mornings.	Finally, the doctors issued an ultimatum.
evp	IT	noun	1	A2	information technology: the use of computers and other electronic equipment to store and send information	He's a project manager for a large IT company.	I want to study I.T. because it is very useful.
evp	itch	verb	1	B2	If a part of your body itches, it feels uncomfortable and you want to rub it with your nails.	Woollen sweaters make my arms itch.	On the other hand I loathe jumpers since they make me itch, so I buy them once in a blue moon!
evp	itch	verb	2	C2	to want to do something very much	You could tell that they were itching to leave.	The difference between these two kinds of people lies exactly there: the package-tourist is itching to go back home as soon as he sets off whereas the traveler may never go back home.
evp	item	noun	1	B1	a single thing in a set or on a list	the last item on the list	I have tasted all the items in that restaurant.
evp	item	noun	2	B2	a piece of news on television or radio, or in a newspaper	a small item on the back page of the local newspaper	Last week, in the "East London Journal", I read an item about your opening an Investor Club.
evp	itinerary	noun	1	C1	a list of places that you plan to visit on a journey	The President's itinerary includes visits to Boston and New York.	Finally, although the itinerary involved a visit to St. Andrews, for some unknown reasons we never went there and I was really disappointed.
evp	jacket	noun	1	A1	a short coat	a leather/denim jacket	I need to buy a jacket.
evp	jail	noun	1	B1	a place where criminals are kept as a punishment	the country's overcrowded jails	Otherwise, they will throw him in jail for his bad past.
evp	jam	noun	1	A2	a sweet food made with fruit and sugar that you can put on bread	strawberry/raspberry jam	First we can eat some snacks: cheese, jam, toast...
evp	jam	noun	2	C1	something that is stuck in a machine or that prevents the parts of a machine from moving	The photocopier isn't working because of a paper jam.	
evp	jam	verb	1	C1	to get stuck or make something get stuck	My key jammed in the lock.	I understand the request for a new printer could be considered expensive, but it would benefit the office in the long run by diminishing the waste of paper and toner due to the paper jamming the printer.
evp	jam	verb	2	C2	to fill a place completely	The streets were jammed with cars.	Our quiet roads will be jammed with cars coming from other towns, especially the Saturday morning.
evp	janitor	noun	1	C2	a person whose job is to clean and take care of a building	There is a janitor in the building from 6 a.m. to 11 p.m.	They began working in a building, he as a janitor and she as a maid in several apartments.
evp	January	noun	1	A1	the first month of the year, after December and before February	Her father died in January.	The class date is January 12th.
evp	jar	noun	1	B1	a glass container used for storing food	a jar of coffee/honey	I've already bought them a jar of "Dulce de leche", that I'm sure they will love.
evp	jargon	noun	1	C1	words and phrases that are used by particular groups of people and are difficult for other people to understand	legal/technical jargon	In general terms Excel is an adequate school for Business English, as they make you speak fluently and with a broader vocabulary, which is very helpful especially when negotiating with non-American English speakers, who usually use different terms (or a particular jargon).
evp	jaw	noun	1	B2	the lower part of your face which moves when you open your mouth	a broken jaw	Some of Jem's features such as his curved nose, his cruel jaw or even his hands, made Mary think of Joss Merlyn.
evp	jazz	noun	1	A2	a type of music first developed by African-Americans, which often includes parts played without written music	Paul has a lot of jazz on his iPod.	I like pop music and jazz.
evp	jealous	adjective	1	B1	upset and angry because someone you love seems interested in another person	a jealous husband/wife	The problem is that, a few months ago, when he had broken up with me, I wanted him to feel jealous, so I started meeting Fredo, a friend.
evp	jealous	adjective	2	B2	unhappy and angry because you want something that someone else has	He had always been very jealous of his brother's good looks.	Why had this man in his nightmare told him that one could be jealous of his success?
evp	jealously	adverb	1	B2	in a jealous way	She eyed Gwen's engagement ring jealously.	
evp	jealousy	noun	1	C1	a feeling of unhappiness or anger because you want what someone else has or fear that someone will take what you have	He broke his brother's new bike in a fit of jealousy.	What is more, the most successful colleagues generated some jealousy and incomprehension in the others.
evp	jeans	noun	1	A1	pants made of denim, a strong cotton material, which are worn informally	jeans and a T-shirt	Come to my house tomorrow wearing jeans and a white T-shirt.
evp	jelly	noun	1	A2	a sweet, slightly solid food made from fruit juice and sugar that you spread on bread	grape/apple jelly	
evp	jet	noun	1	B1	an aircraft with a jet engine, which is able to fly very fast	a jet plane	After we went in his private jet to his mansion.
evp	jewel	noun	1	B2	a valuable stone that is used to make jewelry or to decorate objects	She was wearing a large gold necklace set with jewels.	We opened it and we were left speechless as in the chest there were the most shiny jewels and coins we had ever seen.
evp	jewelry	noun	1	A2	objects made from gold, silver, and valuable stones that you wear for decoration	a jewelry box	Talking about accessories, I like using caps, jewelry, belts, purses and all that stuff.
evp	job	noun	1	A1	the regular work that you do in order to earn money	a full-time/part-time job	I'm going to do a part-time job on Saturday[s].
evp	job	noun	2	A2	a particular piece of work	The builders are aiming to get the job done by the end of the month.	It will be a messy job so wear something old.
evp	job	noun	3	B2	something that is your responsibility	She believed her job as a politician was to represent the views of her party and the people who voted for her.	One day, my boss said to me: "Serve tea every morning". I'm a computer operator. I'm not his wife. It is not my job.
evp	job	noun	4	B2	to do something well/very well, etc.	She did a great job of organizing the event.	Dear Bill, I think you did a very good job writing this chapter.
evp	job	noun	5	C1	at the place where you work, or while you work	She's only had two years on the job and has been promoted already.	Not managing on the job wouldn't just have been your failure, but also your employer's, who had trusted you.
evp	job	noun	6	C2	If something does the job, it achieves the desired result.	I need somewhere to keep these papers – this folder should do the job.	Allow them to bring home friends and therefore develop social skills. In my opinion, that should do the job.
evp	jog	verb	1	B1	to run slowly for exercise	I jog through the park every morning.	When you jog, you can feel your whole body moving.
evp	jogging	noun	1	B1	when you jog	Let's go jogging.	You can stay in a hotel in Copacabana and go jogging in the morning.
evp	join	verb	1	A2	to become a member of a club, group, or organization	I felt so out of shape after Christmas that I decided to join a gym.	It will be great if you join the new art class.
evp	join	verb	2	A2	to do something or go somewhere with someone	I don't have time for a drink now, but I'll join you later.	I'm going to Wandsworth Cinema with my friends tonight. Would you like to join us?
evp	join	verb	3	B1	to fasten or connect things together	A bridge joins the two islands.	
evp	join	verb	4	B1	If roads or rivers join, they meet at a particular point.	Route 440 joins I-287 just over the bridge.	
evp	join	verb	5	C2	When two people or groups join forces, they act or work together.	She joined forces with her sister-in-law to set up the restaurant.	Art Garfunk[e]l and Paul Simon, two musicians from the decade of peace and love who had split up a while ago, decided to join forces once again for one last tour of the United States.
evp	join	verb	6	B1	to become involved in an activity with other people	We only need one more person to be able to play a game - can you persuade your sister to join in?	Generally I'm not interested in that sort of thing but I found it interesting, so I decided to join in.
evp	joint	adjective	1	B2	belonging to or shared between two or more people	a joint bank account	
evp	joint	noun	1	C1	a cheap restaurant or place where people go for drinks or entertainment	a pizza joint	The following day a visit was scheduled to "a typical English restaurant" which turned out to be a hamburger joint.
evp	joint	noun	2	C2	a place in your body where two bones meet	the knee joint	Would you really like to have a job in which you would risk not being able to walk because of the damage to your joints?
evp	jointly	adverb	1	C1	in a shared way	Construction of the new high school will be jointly funded by the city and the state.	Avesta is now jointly owned by Swedes and Englishmen after merging with British Steel.
evp	joke	noun	1	B1	something which someone says to make people laugh, usually a short story with a funny ending	Did I tell you the joke about the chicken crossing the road?	In the first lesson, the teacher came in and told us a joke, and the most important thing was . . . the joke was funny!
evp	joke	noun	2	C1	to not be serious or not deserve respect	The investigation was a joke.	Talking about restaurants, your "typical English restaurant" was a joke.
evp	joke	noun	3	C1	to tell a joke	He seemed very relaxed, laughing and cracking jokes.	Many members will get the chance to show their talent and we will get to crack some jokes too!
evp	joke	verb	1	B1	to say funny things, or not be serious	They joked and laughed as they looked at the photos.	I thought he was joking!
evp	journal	noun	1	C1	a magazine containing articles about a particular subject	a medical journal	What I miss, however, in our library are the books and journals devoted to science.
evp	journal	noun	2	C2	a book in which you regularly write about what has happened to you	I kept a journal during that time.	He looked everywhere but he couldn't find his uncle's personal journal.
evp	journalism	noun	1	B2	the work of collecting, writing and publishing news stories and articles in newspapers and magazines or broadcasting them on the radio and television	broadcast/print/television journalism	She told the leader of the band that she was studying journalism and that her dream was to write for Rolling Stone Magazine.
evp	journalist	noun	1	B1	a person who writes news stories or articles for a newspaper or magazine or broadcasts them on radio or television	a freelance journalist	She is a journalist at the local newspaper and we get along very well.
evp	journey	noun	1	B2	when you travel from one place to another	It's a four-hour journey from New York City to Boston by car.	I think that with this journey I will learn how other people live and I will also learn to value the things I have.
evp	joy	noun	1	B2	great happiness	They were filled with joy when their first child was born.	Well, you should be bouncing up and down with joy (just kidding)!
evp	joy	noun	2	B2	something or someone that makes you feel very happy	Listening to music is one of his greatest joys.	It was a real joy to meet Anna and Laca again.
evp	judge	noun	1	B1	someone who decides which person or thing wins a competition	the Olympic judges	However, the Astro singing competition is different. The winner will be decided according to the marks given by the judge.
evp	judge	noun	2	B2	someone who controls a trial in court, decides how criminals should be punished, and makes decisions about legal matters	The judge ruled that they had acted correctly.	To the surprise of everyone in the village, the judge found her guilty but didn't send her to jail because he thought she should take care of Linda, who had no other relatives.
evp	judge	noun	3	C2	someone who is usually wrong/usually right, etc. when they judge something	a good judge of character	She is a very good judge of character and the institute has reared some very promising scientists.
evp	judge	verb	1	B1	to have or develop an opinion about something or someone, especially after thinking carefully	So far, he seems to be handling the job well, but it's really too soon to judge.	It's very difficult to judge, because so many young people leave Poland and go to an]othe country.
evp	judge	verb	2	B2	used to express the reasons why you have a particular opinion	Judging by what he said, I think it's very unlikely that he'll be able to support your application.	I didn't like San Diego so much - just judging by my first impression.
evp	judge	verb	3	C1	to officially decide who will be the winner of a competition	I've been asked to judge the art competition.	If you don't object, we would like to see you judging the competition and giving prizes to the winners.
evp	judge	verb	4	C2	to have a bad opinion of someone's behavior, often because you think you are better than them	What gives you the right to judge people?	"I'm not judging you, dear," I whispered softly.
evp	judge	verb	5	C2	to not decide what someone or something is like only by looking at them	You know, his desk is a mess but don't judge a book by it's cover, he does careful, detailed work.	I'm simply pointing out one should never judge a book by it's cover as things aren't always what they seem.
evp	judgment	noun	1	B2	an opinion about someone or something that you decide on after thinking carefully	It proved difficult to make any judgments about exactly how well the school was performing.	Your judgment about the other performers is completely unfair: they were also very good.
evp	judgment	noun	2	C2	the ability to make good decisions or to be right in your opinions	to use/show poor/good/bad judgment	I would like to end this letter expressing my total support and trust in your judgment when m]akin the final decision.
evp	jug	noun	1	C2	a container with a handle used for pouring out liquids	a plastic jug	
evp	juggle	verb	1	C2	to try to do several things at once, when it is difficult to have enough time	Many women have to juggle work and family.	Juggling with time and living the rat-race, I focused my life on my profession.
evp	juice	noun	1	A1	the liquid that comes from fruit or vegetables	orange/lemon/grapefruit/tomato juice	I danced, ate cakes, drank juice and spoke with friends.
evp	juicy	adjective	1	B1	full of juice	juicy mangoes	You must taste the oranges because they are so juicy, so sweet.
evp	juicy	adjective	2	C2	very interesting, exciting, or shocking information	juicy gossip	"That's it," she thought, "somebody must have taken it to their room last night, hoping for some juicy gossip!"
evp	July	noun	1	A1	the seventh month of the year, after June and before August	July 22(nd)	The art class after school is on Wednesday[s] until the end of July.
evp	jump	verb	1	A2	to push your body up and away from the ground using your feet and legs	The children were jumping up and down with excitement.	We jumped naked into the swimming pool!
evp	jump	verb	2	A2	to go over something by moving up into the air	Can you jump over/across this stream?	It's a lot of fun to jump streams of water that are formed by the rain.
evp	jump	verb	3	B1	to move or act suddenly or quickly	She jumped in/into a taxi and rushed to the station.	So I jumped into my car and when I got to the stadium I started to run.
evp	jump	verb	4	B2	to make a sudden movement because you are surprised or frightened	The thunder made me jump.	The noise of a doorbell made me jump.
evp	jump	verb	5	C2	to guess the facts about a situation without having all of the information	It’s not fair to jump to conclusions based on one incident.	I think, before jumping to conclusions, we should first try to analyse the situation.
evp	jump	noun	1	B1	a sudden movement off the ground or off a high place	He won with a jump of 8.5 meters.	She could not believe that she, the shy and unimportant Laura Wilcox, was standing on the top of a bridge ready for her bungee jump.
evp	June	noun	1	A1	the sixth month of the year, after May and before July	Her birthday is June 24th.	I would like to travel in July because my examination will be finished on June 15th.
evp	jungle	noun	1	B1	a tropical forest in which trees and plants grow very closely together	The Yanomami people live in the South American jungle.	It is a little bit far and out of the city, near the jungle and the mountains.
evp	junior	adjective	1	B2	lower or less advanced in rank, position, or time in service	the junior senator from Illinois	At the moment [I']m a junior member of the Kato Club in Amsterdam and [I']m training there because it is so close to the University and my apartment.
evp	junior	adjective	2	B2	for or relating to young people	a junior tennis tournament	I am used to working with children, as an instructor for a junior football team in my city.
evp	junior	noun	1	B2	a student in the third year of a program of study at a high school, college, or university	a high school junior	One day my geography teacher gathered the seniors and the juniors in our class, plus the principal and other two or three teachers, so that they could listen to me making a speech on my beautiful home-country.
evp	junior	noun	2	C2	10/20, etc. months/years younger than someone	He was born in April, so he’s three months my junior.	I have a sister four years my junior and in my opinion we have no reason to complain.
evp	junk	noun	1	C1	old things which have little value	His car is just a piece of junk.	I would also like to get rid of the junk in the other bedroom.
evp	junk food	noun	1	B2	food that is unhealthy but is quick and easy to eat	He eats a lot of junk food.	Well, the best way to keep your body fit and healthy is to practice sports and to h]av a good meals like vegetables, fruits, cereals, and not to eat junk food like everybody does.
evp	junk mail	noun	1	C1	mail sent by companies and other organizations to advertise products and services or ask for money	There’s a letter for you and the rest is junk mail.	The facts seem clear, we are being overwhelmed by spamming, junk mail, advertising marathons on TV and radio.
evp	jury	noun	1	B2	a group of people who have been chosen to listen to all the facts in a trial in a law court and to decide whether a person is guilty or not guilty, or whether a claim has been proved	members of the jury	The accused is defended by a famous lawyer who tells his wife that a loving wife's confirmation of her husband's alibi will not convince the jury.
evp	jury	noun	2	C1	a group of people who decide the winner of a competition	The jury chose an unexpected winner for the literary prize.	People who think they are talented enough to sing and appear on TV apply for the show and go to auditions to sing their heart out in front of a jury.
evp	jury	noun	3	C2	If the jury is (still) out on a subject, people do not yet know the answer or have a definite opinion about it.	The jury's still out on whether these vitamins protect against cancer.	I think that the jury is still out on the effects of television and other media.
evp	just	adverb	1	A2	a very short time ago	I've just been on a trip to France.	I've just had my birthday. It was on Friday.
evp	just	adverb	2	A2	now or very soon	I'm just leaving!	
evp	just	adverb	3	B1	only	"Would you like another drink?" "OK, just one more."	It was just a dream...
evp	just	adverb	4	B1	almost not	This dress only just fits!	The airplane will arrive at midday, just in time for lunch.
evp	just	adverb	5	B1	exactly or equally	This carpet would be just right for the dining room.	Secondly, next morning after a stop on the Autobahn, just as we started to pull away - a flat tire!
evp	just	adverb	6	B1	used to emphasize something you say	It's just dreadful what happened to her.	That is my best place - it is just wonderful.
evp	just	adverb	7	B1	more or less; almost	"Can you see the stage?" "Yes, just about."	I was just about 2 months older]
evp	just	adverb	8	B1	to be going to do something very soon	I was just about to phone you.	I was so amazed that I didn't realize I was just about to fall into the lake.
evp	just	adverb	9	B1	equally bad/good/tall/clever, etc.	He's just as talented as his brother.	Everywhere he went was just as good as he expected.
evp	just	adverb	10	B1	a little before/over/under, etc. something else	She left just before Michael.	He got sick last winter and died just before Christmas.
evp	just	adverb	11	B2	at the same time as	She woke up just as we got there.	Just as I was turning on the radio somebody knocked at the door.
evp	just	adverb	12	C1	used to say that it is lucky that something happened	It's just as well we brought an umbrella.	It is just as well that my friends had cars to give me a lift to the school.
evp	just	adverb	13	C1	used to say that there is nothing else you can do	We’ll just have to wait and see what happens.	We will just have to wait and see.
evp	just	adjective	1	C1	fair or morally right	a just society	He is really involved in what he is doing and does not fear facing the difficulties if it is to defend a just cause.
evp	justice	noun	1	B2	behavior or treatment that is fair and morally correct	There's no justice in the world when people can be made to suffer like that.	Both of them symbolize courage, a love of justice, and a fight for freedom, which makes them look like heroes.
evp	justice	noun	2	B2	the system of laws which judges and punishes people	the justice system	I hope by the time I am out of prison, the justice system will have changed.
evp	justice	noun	3	C2	to show the best or real qualities of something or someone	This postcard doesn't do justice to the wonderful scenery.	No words can do justice to the indignation that I feel.
evp	justifiable	adjective	1	C2	having a good reason	justifiable anger	Thus, we can understand that this attitude to reading is, to some extent, justifiable.
evp	justification	noun	1	C2	a reason for something	There's no justification for treating her so unfairly.	Unfortunately that day, I took the diary with me, although there was no justification for taking it because I was just going to visit my grandparents and I had no intention of staying there more than one day.
evp	justified	adjective	1	C1	fair or having a good reason	justified criticism	Finally, I would strongly recommend that steps are taken to remedy matters and feel we are justified in requesting partial compensation.
evp	justify	verb	1	B2	to give or to be a good reason for	I can't really justify taking another day off work.	The fact that you want to be the best in your job does not justify your attitude.
evp	justify	verb	2	B2	If you justify yourself, you give a good reason for what you have done.	It was the only thing that I could do - I don't have to justify myself to anyone.	How we can justify ourselves, when we are completely against captivity?
evp	juvenile	adjective	1	C1	by, for, or relating to young people	juvenile crime	Among many aspects of crime, researchers have been keenly studying juvenile crime.
evp	kangaroo	noun	1	B1	a large Australian animal that moves by jumping on its back legs	Kangaroos are a danger on the roads.	Furthermore it has been my dream since I was five years old to see a kangaroo and play with it.
evp	keen	adjective	1	C1	very good or well developed	a keen sense of smell	Furthermore, she has a keen sense of humor and does not mind a practical joke, which is an advantage with children.
evp	keen	adjective	2	C1	very interested or enthusiastic	The class is for those who show a keen interest in painting.	If everybody thinks that young people are not keen on playing sports, it is just not true, at least, in the International Students' Sports Club.
evp	keen	adjective	3	C2	wanting to do something	The company is keen to attract new customers.	Charity workers are keen to contribute with their work, their hearts and the seeds of hope and peace they leave wherever they go.
evp	keep	verb	1	A2	to have something permanently or for the whole of a period of time	Do you want this photograph back or can I keep it?	I can't keep the sofa because it is too big.
evp	keep	verb	2	A2	to regularly store something in a particular place	Keep medicines in a locked cabinet.	All my homework sheets were kept in that file.
evp	keep	verb	3	A2	to (cause to) stay in a particular place or condition	I wish you'd keep quiet.	In the hotel you have to keep quiet and go to bed early.
evp	keep	verb	4	B1	to continue doing something without stopping, or to do it repeatedly	He keeps trying to distract me.	I don't know why I wanted to meet her so much but my heart just kept telling me to go after her.
evp	keep	verb	5	B1	to communicate or continue to communicate with someone, for example by e-mail or telephone	We've kept in touch by e-mail for the last five years.	Please keep in touch with me.
evp	keep	verb	6	B1	to delay someone or prevent them from doing something	He's very late, what's keeping him?	I'm sure they won't try to keep you from having fun.
evp	keep	verb	7	B1	to not tell anyone a secret/about something secret	Mr. Brown apparently delayed the announcement, and managed to keep it secret from the entire group.	I had loved Sean since sixth grade but I was keeping it a secret.
evp	keep	verb	8	B2	to be late so that someone has to wait for you	I'm sorry to have kept you waiting.	A week later, when we were going to have our second lesson, she kept us waiting for almost an hour.
evp	keep	verb	9	B2	to do what you promised to do	James kept his promise and repaid all of the money he had borrowed.	She didn't keep her promise and she ruined my life.
evp	keep	verb	10	B2	to write something down in order to remember it	Remember to keep a record of how much you spend.	Furthermore, a computer helps us to keep records by saving files.
evp	keep	verb	11	B2	If food or drink keeps, it remains fresh.	Once opened, this product will keep for three days if refrigerated.	
evp	keep	verb	12	B2	to have and look after animals	Our neighbors keep chickens.	Oh, and I was surprised because your mother finally agreed to keep a dog.
evp	keep	verb	13	B2	to watch or look after someone or something	Could you keep an eye on this the soup for a minute?	You have to supply e]verythin they need and keep an eye on them all the time.
evp	keep	verb	14	B2	to stay with someone so that they are not alone	Come and keep me company, Isabel.	I wish you came and kept me company.
evp	keep	verb	15	B2	to remember to consider someone or something that may be useful in the future	I'll keep you in mind if another job comes up.	But we should keep in mind that books improve our vocabulary and, what's more, our imagination.
evp	keep	verb	16	C1	to continue to know about someone or something	He changes jobs so often I can’t keep track anymore.	Trying to keep track of these changes by translating them would be an inappropriate task.
evp	keep	verb	17	C1	to do what you said you would do	He agreed to come and I'm sure he'll keep his word.	It turned out that the company that had been hired to organize it did not keep their word.
evp	keep	verb	18	C1	to provide what someone needs for a short period of time	Dinner is at eight, but I had an apple to keep me going.	Because of health concerns, advertisements lately show the people in Holland how important it is to have a good breakfast and that it will keep you going the whole day.
evp	keep	verb	19	C1	to move or develop at the same speed as someone or something else	We have to keep pace with the changing times.	It was first published a century ago and what amazes people most is that it keeps pace with the development of the country without leaving out references to our history and tradition.
evp	keep	verb	20	C1	to try not to be noticed	She has kept a low profile since the divorce.	Finally, I believe that the best way to handle these issues is to try to keep a low profile at all times and to remain indifferent to gossip.
evp	keep	verb	21	C1	to remain calm	You did well to keep your cool in all that panic.	Whatever the problem is, keep your cool, don't panic.
evp	keep	verb	22	C2	to remain calm in a difficult situation	To be successful in business, you need to keep a cool head in negotiations.	Kevin managed to keep a cool head and took over the navigation.
evp	keep	verb	23	C2	to watch carefully for someone or something	Keep your eyes open for anything unusual.	While staying in Turkey, for example, people ought to keep their eyes open. Look into life there.
evp	keep	verb	24	C2	to watch carefully for someone or something	Keep your eyes peeled, he should be here any minute.	Ever since, I try to keep my eyes peeled for anything similar.
evp	keep	verb	25	C2	to manage to stop yourself from smiling or laughing	I can never play jokes on people because I can't keep a straight face.	
evp	keep	verb	26	C2	to hope that things will happen in the way that you want them to, and to put a finger over the one next to it as a sign of that hope	Let's keep our fingers crossed that she gets the job.	Wish me luck, Winnie," she sighed "keep your fingers crossed, please."
evp	keep	verb	27	C2	to have just enough money to live or to continue a business	With extra income from private sponsorship, the club is just about managing to keep its head above water.	I also started to realize how much she had on her plate, how very little help she had and how, at times, she had to struggle just like me to keep her head above water.
evp	keep	verb	28	C2	to not talk about something	It might be wise to keep this quiet for a while.	They tried to keep it quiet but, somehow, half the village knew about the news in a few days.
evp	keep	verb	29	C2	to succeed in staying calm and not becoming angry	It was hard to keep my temper with so many things going wrong.	He never offends people and he keeps his temper even if someone insults him.
evp	keep	verb	30	C2	to make sure that someone gives all their attention to what they are doing and is ready for anything that might happen	We have random inspections to keep everyone on their toes.	
evp	keep	verb	31	C2	to continue working hard at something difficult	Learning a language is hard but you've just got to keep at it.	Despite the fact that it requires patience, one should not work oneself up into a frenzy but keep at it.
evp	keep	verb	32	B2	to not go somewhere or near something, or to prevent someone from going somewhere or near something	I told them to keep away from the edge of the cliff.	But the animals themselves are being kept away from their natural environment in captivity.
evp	keep	verb	33	B2	to not go near something, or to prevent someone or something from going past a particular place	The police struggled to keep the crowd back.	
evp	keep	verb	34	B2	to stop the number, level, or size of something from increasing	I have to exercise to keep my weight down.	That's also a way of keeping down the many accidents we have from fast cycling.
evp	keep	verb	35	C1	to prevent someone or something from doing something	Try to keep the children from dropping food all
over the floor.	But its beautiful graphics and very rich text will keep you from complaining too much.
evp	keep	verb	36	C2	to not tell someone about something	Is there something you're keeping from me?	They kept it from me.
evp	keep	verb	37	B1	to make a child stay inside, often as a punishment, or to make someone stay in a hospital	She kept the children in because it was so cold.	
evp	keep	verb	38	B1	to not go onto an area, or to stop someone or something going onto an area	Keep off the grass.	
evp	keep	verb	39	B2	to stop something touching or harming someone or something	He put a cloth over the food to keep the flies off.	
evp	keep	verb	40	B1	to continue to do something, or to do something again and again	She kept on asking me questions the whole time.	I kept on looking for him outside my building and in the park, but I still haven't found him.
evp	keep	verb	41	B1	to not go into a place, or to stop someone or something from going into a place	The building was unsafe so they put up a sign saying "Danger - Keep out."	
evp	keep	verb	42	B2	If you keep to a plan/subject/path, etc., you stay with it.	We need to keep to the agenda or the meeting will take too long.	When the zoos keep to these and other important and necessary conditions and rules, I think it is not cruel to keep animals in zoos.
evp	keep	verb	43	C2	If you keep something to yourself, you do not tell anyone else about it.	She usually keeps her opinions to herself.	She kept her thoughts to herself, her best friend being her diary.
evp	keep	verb	44	B1	to continue doing something or not allow it to fall to a lower level	Keep up the good work.	This is my advice: give up sports to keep up your music classes.
evp	keep	verb	45	B2	to move at the same speed as someone or something that is moving forward so that you stay level with them	She was walking so fast I couldn't keep up with her.	Unfortunately he was too fast and I couldn't keep up with him.
evp	keep	verb	46	B2	to be able to understand or deal with something that is happening or changing very fast	It's important to keep up with international news.	I live in London and I have to keep up with Turkish news for my job.
evp	keep	verb	47	C2	to increase or make progress at the same speed as something or someone else so that you stay at the same level as them	Prices have been rising very fast and wages haven't kept up.	We need more and more of our natural resources to be able to keep up with the rise in population.
evp	keep	verb	48	C2	to continue doing something or continue something without change	He was having trouble keeping up the payments on his car.	The reason why a person becomes homeless is that he or she is not able to pay the rent or fails to keep up the mortgage payments.
evp	keeper	noun	1	B1	a person who takes care of animals or is in charge of valuable objects, a building, etc.	a zoo keeper	Tina was confused because she wasn't a dragon keeper, so normally dragons didn't speak with her.
evp	kettle	noun	1	B1	a covered container used for boiling water that has a handle and an opening for pouring		If I have an electric kettle in my bedroom, I won't need to go to the kitchen.
evp	key	noun	1	A1	a piece of metal cut into a particular shape that is used for opening or closing the lock of a door, starting a car engine, etc.	car/door/house keys	I left my keys at your house.
evp	key	noun	2	A2	a list of answers to an exercise, quiz, test, etc.	You can check your answers in the answer key on page 176.	
evp	key	noun	3	B1	a way of explaining or achieving something	Hard work is the key to success.	To those who say that money can't buy happiness I answer that money is a key to happiness.
evp	key	noun	4	B2	one of the places that you press with your fingers on a device such as a computer or on a musical instrument to produce letters, numbers, symbols, or produce a sound	Press the shift key to write in capital letters.	What is more, you can get the information you need in just one second by pressing the "enter" key o] a computer.
evp	key	adjective	1	B2	very important in influencing or achieving something	She was a key figure in the international art world.	Unfortunately one day I decided that it was time to become more independent and I didn't ask a key question.
evp	key	adjective	2	C1	to be very important in influencing or achieving something	Early diagnosis is key to your chances of surviving.	Distribution is key to achieving economic growth and the positioning of domestic and imported goods.
evp	keyboard	noun	1	A2	a set of keys that you press to use a computer	I got a new keyboard and mouse for my computer.	COMPUTER [FOR SALE] It's one year old so I will give you the monitor and keyboard.
evp	keyboard	noun	2	A2	an electrical musical instrument similar to a piano, or the set of keys on a piano or similar musical instrument	Steve plays keyboards, drums, and saxophone.	I play two instruments, so I can help you with the concert, playing guitar or keyboard.
evp	kick	verb	1	A1	to hit someone or something with the foot, or to move the feet and legs suddenly and violently	I kicked the ball as hard as I could.	I picked up a ball and kicked it, and the dog ran after it with the phone still in his mouth.
evp	kick	verb	2	C2	to be very annoyed with yourself for doing something stupid or wrong	I could have kicked myself for saying that.	Nevertheless what kept me kicking myself was that this time my partner was in danger as well.
evp	kick	verb	3	C1	to start to be effective or to happen	The new tax rate kicks in next month.	It is at this time that the hormones start to kick in resulting in most of them having to suffer the side effects.
evp	kick	verb	4	C2	When an event kicks off, it begins.	What time does the parade kick off?	Not only did the invention of the wheel improve daily movements, but also it kicked off a much faster and easier way of traveling all over the world.
evp	kick	verb	5	C2	When you kick off a discussion or activity, you start it.	Should we kick off the session with a presentation from Lisa?	
evp	kick	verb	6	C1	to force someone to leave a place or organization	The store is closing - we should leave before they kick us out.	He will kick you out of his house without thanking you.
evp	kick	noun	1	A2	the action of kicking something	She gave him a kick under the table to shut him up.	We practiced shooting, passing the ball to each other, and taking a corner kick.
evp	kick	noun	2	C2	a special feeling of excitement and energy	She gets a kick out of performing live.	I really get a kick out of anything which concerns magic.
evp	kid	noun	1	A2	a child	He took the kids to the park while I was working.	Even small kids came and had fun.
evp	kid	verb	1	B1	to say something as a joke	You're just kidding me, aren't you?	I'm going to be a movie star! Just kidding.
evp	kid	verb	2	B1	something you say to show that you are surprised by what someone has said, or do not believe it is true	"She left on Friday." "You're kidding! Really?"	
evp	kidney	noun	1	C2	one of the two organs in your body which remove waste from the blood and produce urine	kidney failure/disease	Her kidneys didn't work well enough to keep her healthy and someone had to be found who could give one of his kidneys to her.
evp	kill	verb	1	A2	to cause someone or something to die	Her parents were killed in a plane crash.	I like it because you must kill a lot of monsters.
evp	kill	verb	2	A2	used to say that someone will be very angry with someone else	Dad will kill me for being late.	It's very important to find it because if not my mother will kill me!
evp	kill	verb	3	B2	to do something while you are waiting for something else to happen or have nothing else to do	We killed time playing video games.	When you are at home alone and have nothing to do, you can kill time watching television.
evp	kill	verb	4	C1	to cause you a lot of pain or effort	My feet are killing me.	I didn't have enough room to move and the seat belt was broken so when we finally arrived in Edinburgh my back was killing me.
evp	kill	verb	5	C2	to stop an activity or experience completely	This funding cut will kill the program.	
evp	killer	noun	1	B1	someone who kills another person	Police are still hoping to find the dead woman's killer.	I opened the window to take a breath of fresh air and I saw the man again, the killer, smoking a cigarette and looking at me.
evp	killing	noun	1	B1	when a person is murdered	a series of brutal killings	During the film there were a lot of explosions, killings and action scenes.
evp	kilo	noun	1	A2	a kilogram	a 200 kilo block of concrete	We danced a lot, and I think everybody has lost 2 kilos.
evp	kilogram	noun	1	A2	a unit of mass equal to 1000 grams, or 2.2 pounds		
evp	kilometer	noun	1	A2	a unit of measurement equal to 1000 meters		The cottage is located in the mountains about 300 kilometers north of Oslo.
evp	kind	noun	1	A1	a type of thing or person	What kind of music do you like?	We can go to Hopi Hari, it is a kind of theme park, I think you will like it very much!
evp	kind	noun	2	A2	many different types of something	The cabinet contained all kinds of strange things.	To help, I could bring all kinds of CDs.
evp	kind	noun	3	B1	used to show that what you have just said is only an example from a larger group of things	I like pasta, pizza - that kind of thing/those kinds of things.	I enjoy that kind of thing, going to buy presents.
evp	kind	noun	4	B1	used to talk about something when you are not sure of its exact type	He's opening some kind of store.	You should try joining some kind of club.
evp	kind	noun	5	B2	used to describe something approximately	It's a kind of bike.	I know that the Frene Hotel is kind of expensive, but it's just for one night so I think we can make it.
evp	kind	noun	6	C2	used to describe someone or something that is completely different from other people or things	My Dad was one of a kind - funny, kind and generous.	Pele is indeed one of a kind and can be considered a model for youngsters.
evp	kind	adjective	1	A2	generous, helpful, and thinking about other people's feelings	She's a very kind and thoughtful person.	It was very kind of you to come and talk to us about your latest work.
evp	kindly	adverb	1	B1	in a kind way	Stella has very kindly offered to help out with the food for the party.	He answers my simple questions kindly.
evp	kindly	adverb	2	C2	to not like something that someone says or does	He doesn't take kindly to criticism.	His wife didn't take kindly to his lateness and immediately snarled at him as though she was a tigress snapping her claws in a cat-fight.
evp	kindness	noun	1	B2	the quality of being kind	love and kindness	Thank you again for your kindness and hospitality.
evp	king	noun	1	A2	(the title of) a male ruler of a country, who holds this position because of his royal birth	King Richard II	The French kings lived at Versailles.
evp	king	noun	2	C1	the best or most important person in a particular activity	He's the new king of pop music.	He is the king of football, which is not at all an exaggeration, even though he is retired now.
evp	kingdom	noun	1	B2	a country ruled by a king or queen	the kingdom of Sweden	The kingdom Chosun lasted until the beginning of the 20th century.
evp	kingdom	noun	2	C2	all animals or plants considered together	The monarch butterfly is one of the most beautiful creatures in the animal kingdom.	As well as being of paramount importance for the animal kingdom, Hawley Woods is the only green open space left in our area where we humans can walk, jog or simply lie on the grass.
evp	kit	noun	1	B1	a collection of things kept in a container for a particular use	a first-aid/tool kit	I would rather buy a big travel kit, including a first-aid kit.
evp	kitchen	noun	1	A1	a room where food is kept, prepared, and cooked and where the dishes are washed	We usually eat breakfast in the kitchen.	I think my bag is in your kitchen.
evp	kite	noun	1	A2	a toy made from paper or cloth which flies in the air on a long string	We spent the morning flying a kite in the local park.	I got a lot of presents: a kite, a ball, shoes, a T-shirt, trousers, jeans, and a dog.
evp	kitten	noun	1	B1	a young cat	Our cat's had two kittens.	
evp	knee	noun	1	B1	the middle part of your leg where it bends	a knee injury	He entered the living room drunk and with blood over his knee.
evp	kneel	verb	1	B2	to go down into, or stay in, a position where one or both knees are on the ground	She knelt (down) beside the child.	Robert knelt down by her, pronouncing the simple words "Will you marry me?"
evp	knife	noun	1	A1	a sharp tool, usually with a metal blade and a handle, used for cutting and spreading food or other substances, or as a weapon	a fish/butter/steak knife	I want to sell a beautiful old knife, because it doesn't cut anything.
evp	knit	verb	1	B1	to make clothes, etc. by using two long needles to connect wool or another type of thread into joined rows	She's forever knitting.	I would really like to learn how to knit sweaters and hats.
evp	knob	noun	1	C1	a round handle, or a round button on a machine	a door knob	It's so obvious that when we turn a knob on or when we switch on something and there is no electricity, we are at a loss!
evp	knock	verb	1	B1	to repeatedly hit something, making a noise	She knocked on the window to attract his attention.	On Monday, a person knocked on my door.
evp	knock	verb	2	B1	to hit, especially forcefully, and cause to move or fall	He accidentally knocked the vase off the table.	Falling down, I knocked my head on the pavement.
evp	knock	verb	3	B1	to hit someone with a vehicle and injure or kill them	She was knocked down by a bus.	The man explained that Lime was knocked down by a car and that he died immediately.
evp	knock	verb	4	B2	to destroy a building or part of a building	They've knocked down the old movie theater.	Since many of the office building are almost empty I also think that we should have them knocked down and replaced by green parks or other areas where no cars are to be allowed.
evp	knock	verb	5	B2	to make someone become unconscious, usually by hitting them on the head	He was knocked out halfway through the fight.	Chris knocked him out with a strong punch without doubting that he was a criminal.
evp	knock	verb	6	B2	to defeat a person or team in a competition so they cannot take part any more	The Canadian team was knocked out in the semifinal.	
evp	knock	verb	7	B2	to hit or push something or someone, especially accidentally, so that they fall to the ground or onto their side	I knocked a bottle of wine over while I was reaching for a dish.	I knocked over the girl's cup, which was still full of milk.
evp	knot	noun	1	C2	a place where one or more pieces of string, rope, etc. have been tied	Tie a knot in the rope.	The man was always wearing a shabby coat and a big red scarf which was tied in a very complicated knot.
evp	knot	noun	2	C2	to get married	We're planning to tie the knot in April.	She was going to tie the knot in July.
evp	know	verb	1	A1	to have knowledge or information about something in your mind	"Where did he go?" - "I don't know."	I don't know how long it is.
evp	know	verb	2	A1	used to ask someone to tell you a piece of information	Do you know the time?	Do you know why?
evp	know	verb	3	A2	to be able to do something	Do you know how to ski?	Some people know how to play the guitar.
evp	know	verb	4	A2	to be certain	I know (that) she'll be really pleased to hear the news.	I can't find the information, but I know the class is on Tuesday.
evp	know	verb	5	A2	to tell someone something	Let me know if you're coming to the party.	I just want to let you know that we are going to use blue paint because I really like blue.
evp	know	verb	6	B1	used to emphasize what you are saying, or used before you start to talk about someone or something, or used as something to say while you are thinking what to say next	I'm not stupid, you know!	
evp	know	verb	7	B1	to be familiar with or have experience and understanding of	I've known Daniel since we were in school together.	I knew him in London, and when I knew him I was very happy.
evp	know	verb	8	B1	If you know a subject, you are familiar with it and understand it.	Do you know about computers?	If you want to know more about Peruvian history, I recommend you visit the city because you can see the old houses and museums.
evp	know	verb	9	B1	to spend time with someone or something so that you gradually learn more about them	The first couple of meetings are for the doctor and patient to get to know each other.	I hope you can come here and get to know him.
evp	know	verb	10	B1	used when you have an idea	I know - let's go to Helen's house.	
evp	know	verb	11	B1	used when you are saying something that someone already knows	As you know, we have been trying to contact him.	As you know, I am in New York.
evp	know	verb	12	B2	used to say that you think something is true, but you cannot be sure	As far as I know, he isn’t coming until tomorrow.	You wrote that you wanted to go next month, and as far as I know, that would be just fine.
evp	know	verb	13	B2	to have the intelligence or judgment not to do something	She should have known better than to eat so much. No wonder she feels sick now.	I should have known better but I had to tell it to someone.
evp	know	verb	14	B2	used when you agree with something someone has just said	"It's a beautiful day, isn't it?" "I know - let's hope it lasts."	
evp	know	verb	15	B2	used to say that something could be possible although it does not seem likely	It sounds like a nice place to live, but you never know – we may not like it.	You never know, maybe I'll find something interesting and I'll change my point of view.
evp	know	verb	16	C1	very soon	We'll be there before you know it.	It is a bit dark inside, and especially in winter, it is dark before you know it.
evp	know	verb	17	C1	to know everything about something	He knows the system inside out.	The participants got to know Britain inside out and they are happy with the knowledge they gained.
evp	know	verb	18	C1	to understand a subject because of your experience	He doesn't know what he's talking about - he's never even been to Africa.	I believe that you don't really know what you're talking about.
evp	know	verb	19	C2	to guess something correctly	I should have known he wouldn't come.	I should have known that he wouldn't understand.
evp	know	verb	20	C2	to be the most suitable person to have responsibility and make important decisions	When it comes to dealing with my own son, I think I know best.	How true is that expression "Father knows best." If my father was alive today he would probably be laughing his head off.
evp	know	verb	21	C2	to have enough experience not to do something stupid or something that will not achieve anything	I thought she'd listen to me - I should have known better.	Surely two grown-ups should have known better than to shout at each other at the top of their lungs.
evp	know	verb	22	C2	used to talk about part of a story that happens in a sudden and surprising way	A bike came speeding around the corner, and the next thing I knew I was lying on the ground.	And the next thing I knew was that I was playing cards with 3 men.
evp	know	verb	23	C2	to know a lot about a subject, or to be very good at doing something	She's an excellent teacher - she really knows her stuff.	The thing was that she should have been be able to tell them what to do; she never doubted her own abilities. She knew "her stuff" all right.
evp	know	verb	24	B2	to have heard of something or someone and have a little information about them	I know of a good restaurant near the theater.	I know of a good restaurant that has opened recently and it's near your new apartment, so I suggest we go and try out the marvelous Chinese dishes the day after the concert.
evp	knowingly	adverb	1	C2	If you knowingly do something, you mean to do it although it is wrong.	I would never knowingly hurt her.	Separate sex schools unavoidably tend to instill values knowingly or unknowingly.
evp	knowingly	adverb	2	C2	showing that you know what another person is really thinking	He smiled knowingly.	On staring at the picture, he saw two women smiling enigmatically, rather knowingly.
evp	knowledge	noun	1	B1	information and understanding that you have in your mind	Her knowledge of English grammar is very extensive.	Actually, I wanted to improve my English knowledge, because I need a good job.
evp	knowledge	noun	2	B2	used to say that you think that something is true, but cannot be sure	To the best of my knowledge, she's never worked abroad.	Besides, to the best of my knowledge, nowhere in the city can you try such lovely mushrooms.
evp	knowledge	noun	3	B2	something that a lot of people know	It's common knowledge that four of the teachers will not be returning next year.	It is common knowledge that such attention in the mass-media] inevitably tells on relationships in the family.
evp	knowledge	noun	4	B2	knowledge about something which is good enough to be useful	She has a working knowledge of German and Russian.	Furthermore, I have a working knowledge of English, Spanish, Catalan and Italian.
evp	knowledgeable	adjective	1	C1	knowing a lot	He's very knowledgeable about art.	The teaching staff are largely responsible for the quality of the classes, as they're very knowledgeable and patient; being able to find them after classes, though, was impossible.
evp	knuckle	noun	1	C2	one of the parts of your finger where it bends	I grazed my knuckles on the concrete.	What he could see was those two skinny figures, holding hands so tightly that their knuckles were white.
evp	lab	noun	1	B1	a laboratory	a science/computer lab	There are computer labs too.
evp	label	noun	1	B1	a small piece of paper or other material which gives information about the thing it is attached to	a warning label	It was the price label hanging from the skirt belt.
evp	label	noun	2	B1	the name or symbol of a company that produces goods for sale, or the goods themselves or the company itself	The group has signed with a new record label.	Another style which I like is the clothes from big labels like Armani, Dolce and Gabanna and Hugo Boss, but they are very expensive.
evp	label	noun	3	C2	a word or phrase that is used to describe the qualities of someone or something, usually in a way that is not fair	He seems to be stuck with the label "troublemaker."	He pointed out that the label of "traveler" could only be given to those people who would be willing to spend a long period living in another country, enough time to understand the functioning of society and its rules and to be accepted as an "informed" citizen, or at least not to be regarded as a foreigner.
evp	label	verb	1	C1	to fix a small piece of paper or other material to something which gives information about it	She labeled all the packages and sent them out the same afternoon.	When you arrive at the railway station you have to by a ticket at one of the counters labeled "Fahrkarten."
evp	label	verb	2	C2	to describe the qualities of someone or something using a word or phrase	He didn’t want to be labeled a complainer, so he didn’t raise any objection to the extra work.	In my concept, these are the real people who deserve to be labeled as celebrities and not the ones who, currently, carry these titles.
evp	labor	noun	1	C1	work, especially the type of work that needs physical effort	The car parts themselves are not expensive - it's the labor that costs so much.	Several jobs did not even require the use of English, but were physical labor.
evp	labor	noun	2	C1	workers, especially people who do practical work with their hands	skilled/unskilled labor	By working on both draining specific roads and replacing the worn down asphalt simultaneously, the city would be saving money on the labor.
evp	labor	noun	3	C1	the number of people in a place who are available and willing to work	The strong economy will create growth in the labor market.	The labor market in Russia is greatly influenced by the political situation.
evp	labor	noun	4	C2	all of the people available to work or actually employed in a particular area, industry, or company	In this city, over 15 percent of the labor force are in jobs that require a bachelor's degree.	Young couples usually don't want to have more then one or two children and the labor force is declining.
evp	labor	noun	5	C2	the last stage of pregnancy when the woman gives birth to a baby	She went into labor at twelve o’clock last night.	
evp	labor	noun	6	C2	an activity that is hard work but which you do because you enjoy it	He prefers to paint the house himself - it's a labor of love.	
evp	laboratory	noun	1	B1	a room used for scientific work	research laboratories	I was in my school, in a laboratory, when I lost it.
evp	ladder	noun	1	B1	a piece of equipment that is used to reach high places, consisting of short steps attached between two long sides	She was up on a ladder, cleaning the window.	My grandfather fell down from the ladder yesterday while he was fixing the broken light bulbs.
evp	ladder	noun	2	C1	a series of increasingly important jobs or stages in a particular type of work or process	a first step on the employment ladder	Far too often it is not "the key" but "the missing link," preventing us from taking the next step on the career ladder.
evp	lady	noun	1	B1	a polite or old fashioned way of referring to or talking to a woman	There's a young lady here to see you.	A very nice lady offered me a ride home but I refused.
evp	laid-back	adjective	1	C2	very relaxed and not seeming worried about anything, or causing people to feel this way	a laid-back style of teaching	It was very nice to be with laid-back people, not only because it led me to forget about unnecessary worries, but also it made me think about myself more thoroughly than before.
evp	lake	noun	1	A2	a large area of water which has land all around it	We used to go boating on that lake.	I would like to visit the lake and swim in it.
evp	lamb	noun	1	B1	a young sheep, or the flesh of a young sheep eaten as meat	We were staying on a farm where there were newborn lambs.	[O]n the farms, that were along the way, we could see lambs, ducks, cows, horses, dogs, chickens, cats and pigs.
evp	lamp	noun	1	A2	a piece of equipment that produces light	a table/bedside lamp	I think it is next to the lamp.
evp	land	noun	1	B1	an area of ground, especially when used for a particular purpose such as farming or building	This land here is good for growing potatoes.	One man talked about how people can use their land properly, how they should take care of their poultry farm or dairy farm, and how they can take care of their trees and crops.
evp	land	noun	2	B2	the surface of the earth that is not sea	It is cheaper to drill for oil on land than at sea.	Firstly, the car is the fastest way of transportation by land that we have.
evp	land	noun	3	C2	a country	Ireland was my grandmother’s native land.	People across the globe like to travel, explore and experience a different land.
evp	land	verb	1	B1	to arrive at a place in a plane or a boat, or to make a plane or a boat reach the land	We should land in Madrid at 7:00 a.m.	When we landed, my suitcase was not there.
evp	land	verb	2	C1	If an object or person lands somewhere, they fall to the ground there.	The ball landed in the neighbor's garden.	Then, when your booking form landed on my door mat, I decided to take matters into my own hands and to pay a visit to this conference.
evp	land	verb	3	C2	to get or achieve something, usually something good	He's just landed a new job.	To return to our first point, people do not usually land a job in their field of study or childhood dream.
evp	landing	noun	1	B2	an arrival on the ground of an aircraft or boat	an emergency landing	The company said our landing would depend on the weather forecast.
evp	landlady	noun	1	B2	a woman who you rent an apartment, house, room or land from	Heather's landlady lowered her rent when she said she might move out.	May[be] I should tell my landlady about that.
evp	landlord	noun	1	B2	a man who you rent an apartment, house, room or land from	I asked the landlord to fix the window.	I came downstairs and saw my landlord, who seemed very angry.
evp	landmark	noun	1	C1	a place or building that you can easily recognize, especially one that helps you to know where you are	a familiar landmark	It is situated on a rocky outcrop overlooking the river and is a landmark visible from many miles.
evp	landmark	noun	2	C1	a building or other structure that is considered especially important	a landmark skyscraper	What they enjoyed most was the bus tour of London, on Tuesday, as it was a chance for them to see all the famous landmarks without walking.
evp	landmark	noun	3	C2	an event which is famous or important in the history of something	The invention of the silicon chip is a landmark in the history of technology.	This film will never be "Titanic" successful, or "Casablanca" successful, or "Matrix" successful, but it will always be a [...] landmark in the history of action and martial arts films, forever redefining its genre.
evp	landscape	noun	1	B1	the appearance of an area of land, especially in the countryside	a rural landscape	The landscape was beautiful with a lake, a lot of animals, birds, and many flowers.
evp	lane	noun	1	B2	part of a road or track that is separated from the other parts, usually by a painted line	the left/right/middle lane	For example, most buses drive i] an extra lane.
evp	lane	noun	2	B2	a narrow road in the countryside or in a town	He drives too fast along those narrow, country lanes.	I think the best place to buy all this junk food is from my aunty's sweet shop, just 2 miles down your lane.
evp	lane	noun	3	C2	doing or getting the things that lead to rapid success and advancement	Their hard work and successful software put them in the fast lane.	Finally, should you ask why people are not happier than before, the answer is that nowadays they spend more hours on work than before because modern life is mostly a life in the fast lane.
evp	language	noun	1	A1	a type of communication used by the people of a particular country or by a particular group of people	How many languages do you speak?	I'm learning a new language.
evp	language	noun	2	B1	communication between people, usually using words	She has done research into how children acquire language.	Language is very important for communication between people.
evp	language	noun	3	C1	words of a particular type, especially the words used by people in a particular job	legal language	English has become the language of science, so it seems, even though some of the papers, studies and publications are hard to read and understand.
evp	language	noun	4	C1	a system of instructions that is used to write computer programs	I'm not familiar with that programming language.	Students must have knowledge of at least one programming language, preferably Visual C++.
evp	language	noun	5	C1	very rude and offensive words	There was a lot of foul language in the movie.	It is the responsibility of the parents not to fight or use any foul language in front of the kids, as they may learn and use it in front of others.
evp	language	noun	6	C1	words that some people might consider to be offensive	The movie contains strong language.	But what I do see is local kids standing on the corner, chatting, smoking and using strong language.
evp	laptop	noun	1	A2	a computer that is small enough to be carried around and used where you are sitting	A laptop would be really useful for when I'm working on the train.	I think the laptop is in your bedroom.
evp	large	adjective	1	A2	big in size or amount	a large house	It's the new Nokia 380S. I like its large screen and its video camera.
evp	large	adjective	2	C1	in general	By and large, people have welcomed the changes.	I would say that, by and large, tourism in the world today is more beneficial than harmful.
evp	large	adjective	3	C2	people or things in general	This group is not representative of the population at large.	Television - sometimes also described as the "idiot box" - has been accused of turning a whole generation into "couch potatoes" and blamed for every malady affecting the society at large.
evp	large	adjective	4	C2	If something looms large, it becomes very important and often causes worry.	The issue of pay will loom large at this year's conference.	It was, she dreaded to admit, a sense of regret. She shock her head as if doing so shooed the feeling away. On the contrary, however, it was looming large while she was stamping along the busy street.
evp	largely	adverb	1	B2	almost completely	a largely male company	What I'm trying to say is that images, film-frames, videos and sound clips would be largely accepted by the young people because we're moving into a new high-technology age.
evp	laser	noun	1	B2	a machine that produces a strong beam of light that has medical and technical uses or a beam of light produced by a machine like this	laser beam	These appliances have been the key to medical achievements, such as laser-based surgery or different kinds of diagnosis and treatment.
evp	lastly	adverb	1	B2	finally	And lastly, I'd like to thank everyone who took part in the event.	Lastly, I'd like to say that it's very kind of you to suggest bringing something back for me.
evp	the last minute	noun	1	B2	the latest possible opportunity for doing something	They only told me at the last minute that they couldn't come.	We were very disappointed to hear that the actor was replaced by an]othe at the last minute.
evp	last-minute	adjective	1	B2	done at the latest possible opportunity	a last-minute cancellation	I could come the following day to help you with the last-minute preparations if you want me to.
evp	last name	noun	1	A2	the name that you and other members of your family all have	Her first name is Sarah but I don't know her last name.	Brown was his last name.
evp	late	adjective	1	A1	happening or arriving after the planned, expected, usual or necessary time	This train is always late.	I hope I am not late.
evp	late	adjective	2	A1	happening or being near the end of a period of time	It was late at night.	I don't like the time the class finishes. It's too late!
evp	late	adjective	3	C2	describes someone who has died, especially recently	She gave her late husband's clothes to charity.	It took me a while to find a person whom I regard as successful, the outcome is a friend of my late father.
evp	late	adjective	4	C2	used after a time or date to say that something could happen before but not after that time	She said to be there by 8 o'clock at the latest.	As far as employment is concerned, as people take their pensions at the age of 65 at the latest, new staff cannot be recruited.
evp	late	adverb	1	A2	after the planned, expected, usual or necessary time	Kathryn's just phoned to say she's working late this evening.	The party finished late.
evp	late	adverb	2	B2	near the end of a period of time	We talked late into the night.	Firstly, he usually starts working at eight in the morning and he keeps on writing and phoning till late in the evening.
evp	lately	adverb	1	B1	recently	Lately, I've been walking to work.	I'm sorry I couldn't write back to you before but I've been very busy lately.
evp	latest	adjective	1	A2	being the newest or most recent or modern	Have you seen her latest movie?	I like it very much, because it is the latest model and nobody at our school has it.
evp	latter	adjective	1	B2	near or toward the end of something	Construction on the new library should begin in the latter part of next year.	I agree with the latter opinion.
evp	laugh	verb	1	A2	to smile while making sounds with your voice that show you are happy or think something is funny	They laughed at her jokes.	We laughed all the time.
evp	laugh	verb	2	C2	If a subject is no laughing matter, it is serious and not something that people should joke about.	Being late for a job interview is no laughing matter.	Anna and Tom knew this was no laughing matter.
evp	laugh	verb	3	B1	to show that you think someone or something is stupid	I can't go into work looking like this - everyone will laugh at me.	All my friends laughed at me.
evp	laugh	noun	1	B1	the act or sound of laughing	a loud/nervous laugh	There is a beautiful beach there where you can swim, play football and enjoy a good laugh with your friends.
evp	laughter	noun	1	B2	the act or sound of laughing	She roared with laughter.	People need music, joy and laughter.
evp	launch	verb	1	B2	to start an important plan or activity, or begin something	The program was launched a year ago.	Dear Phil, I was very proud last Monday when you asked me to help you to launch this association.
evp	launch	verb	2	B2	If a company launches a product or service, it makes it available for the first time.	We’re planning to launch a new Internet company next month.	The firm was launching a new product and Peter was the manager in charge of making this product the most desirable thing to buy.
evp	launch	verb	3	C2	to send a spacecraft or rocket into the sky, or a ship into the water	On the last shuttle mission, the crew launched a communications satellite.	Could our grandparents or grandparents' parents imagine that one day, we would be able to launch rockets, to have satellites in the sky?
evp	launch	noun	1	C1	the start of a new plan or activity	The launch of their new campaign began today with a press conference.	As for the natural resources, it is not very effective as nothing has changed since the launch of the campaign.
evp	launch	noun	2	C1	the introduction of a new product or service, or an event to celebrate this	Frank went to the launch for the company's new LCD TVs.	For instance, one of those major companies is about to launch the microwave version of one of our region's most famous meals.
evp	launch	noun	3	C2	the launching of a spacecraft, ship, or weapon	The launch of the space shuttle was delayed for 24 hours because of bad weather.	If not every member supports every other member, if open handling of errors isn't done at all stages of the project, if not every member commits to the common target, then millions of euros and many years of work will be destroyed within a few seconds during the launch of the satellite.
evp	laundry	noun	1	B2	clothes, sheets, etc. that need to be washed	to do the laundry	Does the camp have laundry facilities?
evp	lavish	adjective	1	C2	showing that a lot of money has been spent	a lavish meal/party	Wilbur arrived later, too late for the compulsory martini but still on time for the lavish meal of 7 courses.
evp	law	noun	1	B1	the subject or job of understanding and dealing with the official laws of a country	to study/practice law	Her name is Martina, she is twenty-one years old and she studies law in Bologna.
evp	law	noun	2	B2	an official rule made by a government	state/federal law	There is a special law in Sweden which allows everyone to wander along any private estate unless one causes any harm.
evp	law	noun	3	B2	the system of official rules in a country	Playing loud music late at night is against the law.	As a result, the law is being constantly broken.
evp	law	noun	4	C1	If you have to do something by law, it is illegal not to do it.	They have to provide a contract by law.	They consist in preparing e-mails or letters, all formal, giving explanations to clients about their fiscal situation in Brazil, preparing and calculating tax returns, providing to the IRS our clients asset positions, which is required by law and also, having meetings with clients - this is the most important and exciting part of our work.
evp	law	noun	5	C2	a statement or relationship that is always true in science, mathematics, etc.	the laws of physics	Everything seamed less real or less personal when she thought of the universe as an entity and of people as cells or even atoms circling frenetically around an unseen nucleus bound by laws of physics that could not be broken or avoided.
evp	law	noun	6	C2	to do something illegal in order to punish someone because you know that the law will not punish that person	The police did nothing about the thefts, so they took the law into their own hands.	Therefore, locals are scared to death, leading to their taking the law into their own hands.
evp	law	noun	7	C2	the obeying of laws in society	a breakdown in law and order	The breakdown in law and order, lack of basic amenities to support life, absence of a fair and enabling environment for citizens to thrive, to mention but a few, are some among many factors that constitute the cogent reason why most Nigerians choose to travel out of their own country.
evp	lawn	noun	1	C1	an area of grass that is cut to keep it short	Will you mow the lawn this weekend?	Please find enclosed a map of Brighton. Concerning the house, I ask you to mow the lawn regularly and to water the flowers and the green plants every day.
evp	lawsuit	noun	1	C2	a problem taken to a court of law, by an ordinary person or an organization rather than the police, for a legal decision	The lawsuit is aimed at protecting this species of salamander.	Unless such a plan is presented within a month, we will put high compensation claims in a lawsuit.
evp	lawyer	noun	1	B1	someone whose job is to give advice to people about the law and speak for them in court	I want to see my lawyer before I say anything.	After that she thanked me and she told me that she is a lawyer.
evp	layer	noun	1	B2	an amount of a substance covering a surface, or one of several amounts of substance, each on top of the other	the ozone layer	I think clothes will have many gadgets on them like a small oxygen mask or a hat designed to protect people from the strong rays of the sun at midday because the ozone layer will be destroyed in a hundred years' time]
evp	layout	noun	1	C1	the way that something is arranged	Each article in the journal has its own typeface and layout.	Enhancements expanded to include building layout and structure.
evp	laziness	noun	1	B2	being lazy	The only thing stopping me from getting to the gym is laziness.	Sorry I haven't dropped you a line before now - no excuses really, just laziness.
evp	lazy	adjective	1	A2	A person who is lazy does not like working or using any effort.	These kids are just too lazy to walk to school!	If you like drawing and if you aren't a lazy boy, attend the new art class!
evp	lazy	adjective	2	B2	slow and gentle or relaxed	a lazy breeze	Newly arrived with all of my family on the French coast, we were getting set for a long lazy day on the beach.
evp	lead	verb	1	B1	to show someone where to go, usually by taking them to a place or by going in front of them	I don't know the way, so you'd better lead.	And you can go to the nearest village, where you can take a mountain walk led by experienced guides.
evp	lead	verb	2	B2	If something, for example a path or road, leads somewhere, it goes in that direction.	That path leads to the beach.	I discovered a small path which led to an old castle we had never seen before.
evp	lead	verb	3	B2	to be winning a game or a competition	Ngomo led by less than two seconds.	Marseille led 1-0 versus Milan AC in the match which qualified the winner for the semi-finals.
evp	lead	verb	4	B2	to be in control of a group, country, or situation	I think we've chosen the right person to lead the expedition.	I also led a group of people cleaning the wood just outside the city.
evp	lead	verb	5	B2	to live in a particular way	She retired to Florida and still leads a busy life.	Owing to the great speed of technological development, people need to lead a faster life than before]
evp	lead	verb	6	C2	to be better than anyone else	I still believe that we lead the world in acting talent.	
evp	lead	verb	7	C2	to cause someone to do or think something	What led you to think that?	The girl's disappearance leads him to think she was taken away.
evp	lead	verb	8	C2	to cause you to think that something is probably true	So you thought I was leaving, did you?  What led you to that conclusion?	These results lead us to the conclusion that only people with "minds tough enough" will survive.
evp	lead	verb	9	C2	to be caused or influenced by something	Her actions were led by greed.	The main reason that I believe so is that they do not seem to possess any tendency to fall in love blindly and let themselves be led by instinct.
evp	lead	verb	10	B2	to cause something to happen or exist	Reducing speed limits led to fewer fatal highway accidents.	People who work very hard are often tired, which could influence their relationship with others. It might lead to unnecessary arguments and spoil the pleasant atmosphere among them for some time.
evp	lead	verb	11	C2	to happen before an event	The pilot had no recollection of the events leading up to the crash.	We want to know what happened to those civilizations, what were their beliefs, [...] what were their dreams and predictions for the future, what events and actions have led up to the present?
evp	lead	noun	1	B2	a winning position during a race or other situation where people are competing, or a position ahead of other people	For the first time in the race Harrison is in the lead.	In the last lap David took the lead with a professional overtake of Nilsons' Aston Martin.
evp	lead	noun	2	C2	the main person in a film or play	She plays the lead in both films.	A child who leaves school feeling that he has succeeded in leaving his mark by holding the school record for high jump or getting the lead in the school production is a happy, confident child who is able to face the next chapter in his life knowing he can and will do well.
evp	lead	adjective	1	B1	The lead performer or lead part in a performance is the main performer or part.	Who played the lead role?	It was Dave Grohl, the lead singer of Foo Fighters!
evp	leader	noun	1	B1	a person in control of a group, country, or situation	a business/community/political leader	When I arrived there, the group leader introduced me to all the others, and they all were very friendly.
evp	leader	noun	2	C1	someone or something that is first or most important	Her company is a leader in the women’s clothing industry.	The work experience with SuNatCo must, without doubt, positively affect your future career, as our firm is a world leader in the sphere of communications.
evp	leadership	noun	1	C1	the set of characteristics that make a good leader	What the company lacks is leadership.	I also have strong leadership skills and I can lead a team, if necessary.
evp	leadership	noun	2	C1	the job of being in control of a group, country, or situation	The group flourished under her firm leadership.	Apart from his charismatic leadership and his pioneering spirit, Eleftherios Venizelos was very close to people who were impoverished and deeply disappointed at that time.
evp	leadership	noun	3	C1	the people in control of a group, country, or situation	There is growing discontent with the leadership.	His reappearance is when he wins the leadership of the Social Democratic Party and when a few months later he becomes Prime-Minster.
evp	leading	adjective	1	B2	very important or most important	a leading expert on the country's ecology	Indeed hard work plays the leading role concerning both family welfare and the national economy.
evp	leaf	noun	1	B1	a flat, green part of a plant that grows from a stem or branch	a lettuce leaf	One of the things that I like about gorillas is that they are strong and they eat leaves, and another thing is that they can move very fast through the trees.
evp	leaf	noun	2	C2	to start to behave in a better way	I turned over a new leaf and began getting to work on time.	She promised to turn over a new leaf.
evp	leaflet	noun	1	B2	on or more pieces of folded paper that gives information or advertises something	They were handing out leaflets outside the supermarket about the school board election.	Another idea is to place a table where students, staff and visitors can find some information about the school and their activities, some leaflets and brochures.
evp	league	noun	1	B1	a group of teams that compete against each other in a sport	the National League	A TV company came to our school yesterday to make a film of our school's basket-ball team after winning first place at the state's league this year.
evp	leak	verb	1	B2	If a liquid or gas leaks, it comes out of a hole or space by accident, and if a container leaks, it allows liquid or gas to come out when it should not.	Water was leaking from the pipe.	There is always a possibility that this tent is leaking.
evp	leak	verb	2	C2	If someone leaks secret information, they intentionally tell people about it.	Details of the report had been leaked to the press.	"If these facts were leaked to the press, my career would be done for," he said.
evp	leak	noun	1	B2	a hole in something that a liquid or gas comes out of, or the liquid or gas that comes out	There's water on the floor - we must have a leak.	The theater restaurant was closed because there was a serious leak in a pipe and the kitchen was flooded.
evp	leak	noun	2	C2	secret information that has intentionally been told to someone	The Justice Department was investigating security leaks.	
evp	learn	verb	1	A1	to get knowledge or skill in a new subject or activity	They learn Russian at school.	Sometimes we start some game and after that we learn about some new things.
evp	learn	verb	2	B1	to make yourself remember a piece of writing by reading it or repeating it many times	I don't know how actors manage to learn all their lines.	He was a very famous and popular actor. He's very funny and he shows us very useful tricks to help us learn our roles.
evp	learn	verb	3	B1	to be told facts or information that you did not know	Parents learned of the schedule change in a letter from the teacher.	I was pleased to learn that you are coming to Switzerland.
evp	learn	verb	4	B2	to start to understand that you must change the way you behave	She'll have to learn that she can't have everything she wants.	In team sports you can share your feelings with the others and you learn to become extroverted.
evp	learn	verb	5	C2	to learn something by experiencing a lot of problems or difficulty	He doesn’t want to take my advice, so I guess he’ll have to learn the hard way.	If you don't know the past, you're liable to live through it again as instead of deriving the lessons from someone else's experiences, you'll have to learn them the hard way, by trial and error.
evp	learner	noun	1	B2	someone who is getting knowledge or a new skill	learners of English	She is very shy, so her Japanese didn't improve very rapidly, but she was a very industrious learner.
evp	learning	noun	1	B2	the process of getting knowledge or a new skill	language learning	Th[ese] events are not only to entertain students, they are also a part of the learning process, as by communicating with each other, students learn the language.
evp	leather	noun	1	A2	the skin of animals that is used to make things such as shoes and bags	a leather jacket/belt/handbag	And I got teddy bears, a cool leather jacket, and a pretty bag.
evp	leave	verb	1	A1	to go away from a place or a situation, either permanently or for a temporary period	The bus leaves in five minutes.	I leave home at 7:30.
evp	leave	verb	2	A2	to put something in a place and forget to take it with you when you go	Hey, you've left your keys on the table.	I think I have left my umbrella in the bathroom.
evp	leave	verb	3	A2	to put something in a place where it will stay	You can leave your bags by the desk.	Can you take my sunglasses and leave them in my house today?
evp	leave	verb	4	A2	to put something somewhere for another person to have later	I left some sandwiches for them to have later.	I will leave a short message for you.
evp	leave	verb	5	A2	to not use all of something	They ate all the cake but left some cookies.	Could you please help me to find out if there are any places left and please let me know, when the course starts and when the course will finish.
evp	leave	verb	6	B1	to end a relationship with a husband, wife, or partner	He said he'd never leave.	Jose, who is a bus driver, was very unhappy, because his girlfriend had left him.
evp	leave	verb	7	B2	to cause something to stay in a particular condition	Leave that chair where it is.	And I heard my husband shouting: "Mag, do you always have to leave all the lights on?"
evp	leave	verb	8	B2	to stop speaking to or annoying someone	Leave me alone! I'm trying to work.	I asked him to leave me alone and un]plugge the phone.
evp	leave	verb	9	C1	If you leave something or someone doing something, you allow them to continue doing it, or they continue doing it when you go away.	I left the children watching television.	She also has the tendency to leave the children doing what they want, sometimes without realising the consequences.
evp	leave	verb	10	C2	to produce a particular, often bad, situation	Far from improving things, the new law has left many people worse off than before.	He was born on a ranch in Jalisco, the fourth of eight children, and when the youngest was only six months old, my grandfather died, leaving the family penniless.
evp	leave	verb	11	C2	to do something later that you could do immediately	Don't leave your packing till the night before you go.	I left it until the following day since I was too worn out to go on.
evp	leave	verb	12	C2	to arrange for someone to receive something after you die	He left his nieces all his money./He left all his money to his nieces.	"I hate him", Jane thought, "and [I wonder why on earth Uncle John left him all his money and the most beautiful estate in our country with this old manor house, in which all my ancestors were born."
evp	leave	verb	13	C2	to leave someone to do what they want to do	With both parents out at work, the kids were often left to their own devices.	The moment teenagers leave school, they are left to their own devices.
evp	leave	verb	14	C2	to do everything that you can in order to achieve something or to find someone or something	Both sides have vowed to leave no stone unturned in the search for peace.	She has left no stone unturned so as to reach her goal] always asserting her assets and views with conviction.
evp	leave	verb	15	B1	to leave a place without taking someone or something with you	We were in a hurry and I think I must have left my keys behind.	I know you must be disappointed at having to move, leaving all your friends behind, but it's OK, I'm sure you'll make new ones.
evp	leave	verb	16	B2	to not include someone or something	You can leave the butter out of this recipe if you're on a low-fat diet.	She felt so left out.
evp	leave	noun	1	C2	time allowed away from work for illness or another special purpose	maternity/sick leave	A week before Christmas, when I still hadn't heard from your shop, I phoned again, and was told that Mrs Smith was on leave, but could I repeat my problem, which I did.
evp	lecture	noun	1	B1	a formal talk on a serious or specialist subject given to a group of people, especially students	We went to a lecture on Italian art.	It was a very interesting lecture.
evp	lecture	verb	1	C2	to give a formal talk to a group of people, especially students	She’s lecturing on the geology of the region.	After having lectured for almost 10 years, he decided to resign and start writing full-time.
evp	leek	noun	1	B2	a long white and green vegetable that smells and tastes similar to an onion	potato and leek soup	I had some roasted chicken pieces with some leek and broccoli and roasted potatoes and Jan had his favorite spaghetti with cream sauce.
evp	left	adjective	1	A2	on or toward the side of your body that is to the west when you are facing north	He injured his left eye.	Tomorrow I must to go to the doctor because of my left leg, I can't walk any more.
evp	left	adverb	1	A2	to the side of your body that is west when you are facing north	Turn left at the light.	When you go out of Kilburn station, you turn left and you go straight.
evp	left	noun	1	A2	the left side of your body, or the direction toward this side	First I'll introduce the speaker sitting on my left.	It's on the left.
evp	left	noun	2	C2	political groups that support economic equality and believe government should provide social services	The proposals were sharply criticized by the left.	
evp	left-hand	adjective	1	A2	on or to the left of something	There's a sign on the left-hand side.	When the bus arrives at City Hall, you can jump out, and my house is on the left-hand side by City Hall.
evp	left-wing	adjective	1	C1	supporting economic equality and government-funded social services	He is interested in left-wing politics.	Women's politics are usually followed by the left-wing parties in Austria.
evp	leg	noun	1	A1	one of the parts of the body of a human or animal that is used for standing and walking	My legs were tired after so much walking.	He has broken his leg and I must look after him.
evp	legacy	noun	1	C2	a situation that was caused by something from an earlier time	The war has left a legacy of hatred.	Many of his novels deal with the social and political problems facing his country, including the difficulty of the post-colonial legacy.
evp	legacy	noun	2	C2	money or property that you receive from someone after they die	An elderly cousin had left her a small legacy.	Falcon Crest was the name of an estate set in the prosperous vineyards of the California Valley, and the plot dealt with the intrigues woven by a widow, Angela Chaming, to solid]if her control over the region, and to leave her beloved grandson a powerful solid legacy.
evp	legal	adjective	1	B2	relating to the law	the legal profession	I'm sure you will accept my request; if not I intend to take legal action against your company.
evp	legal	adjective	2	B2	allowed by the law	Is it legal to cross the border and buy prescription drugs in another country?	Can anybody say how any enterprise should or must work? Is it legal?
evp	legally	adverb	1	B2	as stated or allowed by the law	The contract is legally binding.	He already had a driving license, so by that time he could legally drive his own Ferrari.
evp	legend	noun	1	B2	an old story or set of stories from ancient times	The dance was based on several Hindu legends.	You know I'm fond of medieval tales and legends, so while we're in Scotland, let's visit a haunted castle!
evp	legend	noun	2	C1	a famous person	a living legend	They didn't even knew it of course that they would become legends for the generations to come and this fact makes this hypothetical travel such a fascinating experience only on the thought of it!
evp	legendary	adjective	1	C1	famous for being excellent	the legendary guitarist Jimi Hendrix	If I went back to the beginning of the 70s, then I would probably have had a chance to work with Bill Gates and his legendary crew.
evp	legendary	adjective	2	C1	from an ancient legend	a legendary Greek hero	The last article concerned Hercules, the legendary hero.
evp	legislation	noun	1	C2	a law or a set of laws	The government has promised to introduce legislation to limit fuel emissions from cars.	And while governments have taken measures to reduce emission of fuels into the atmosphere and prevent toxic waste from being discharged into the oceans, the existing legislation is not rigorously enforced.
evp	legitimate	adjective	1	C2	reasonable and acceptable	He claimed that the restaurant bill was a legitimate business expense.	Not even when he mentioned acts of violence as a legitimate way of achieving one's goals did she react.
evp	legitimate	adjective	2	C2	allowed by law	The army must give power back to the legitimate government.	After all, Ralph has the conch, which symbolizes legitimate power, and has been democratically elected.
evp	leisure	noun	1	B1	the time when you are not working	leisure activities	I don't have much leisure time.
evp	lemon	noun	1	A2	an oval, yellow fruit that has sour juice	lemon juice	We drink juice and tea with lemon.
evp	lemonade	noun	1	A2	a cold drink made with the juice of lemons, water, and sugar	There's both lemonade and iced tea in the fridge.	You can even just relax and sunbathe while you drink a nice, cold lemonade.
evp	lend	verb	1	A2	to give something to someone for a short period of time, expecting it to be given back	She doesn't like lending her books.	We can meet at 6:00pm. I can ask my father to lend us the car.
evp	lend	verb	2	B2	If a bank lends money, it gives money to someone who then pays the money back in small amounts over a period of time.	Does the bank lend to small businesses?	
evp	lend	verb	3	C2	to be suitable for a particular purpose	The novel's complex, imaginative style does not lend itself to translation.	Last but not least, the fact that he managed to reconquer the realm of rock music for the German tongue lends itself to being displayed, together with similar efforts by bands like Aurhefu, who achieved a similar "resurrection" for the Welsh language.
evp	length	noun	1	B1	the measurement or distance of something from one end to the other	The boat is 20 feet in length.	The new one has a length of 2.10 metres.
evp	length	noun	2	B2	the amount of time something takes	the length of a film/speech/play	We will need you to start the talk at 7:00 p.m. with a length of one hour.
evp	length	noun	3	C1	the amount of writing in a book or document	He's written books of various lengths on the subject.	
evp	length	noun	4	C2	in every part of a place	They traveled the length and breadth of the country together.	It is the reason that we can easily see the foreigners wandering the length and breadth of the museum being unaware of the origin of items they look at.
evp	length	noun	5	C2	If you talk about something at length, you talk for a long time.	We discussed both topics at length.	Since we have already arranged for your family to come to stay in my home and discussed the arrangements at length and in detail, I will no longer bother you with terms of payment and other information that, judging by your letter, seems to be quite irrelevant.
evp	length	noun	6	C2	to not allow someone to become too friendly with you	I always had the feeling she was keeping me at arm's length.	At first she keeps them at arm's length, but Mr. Emerson is direct and advises Lucy to behave in a more natural way instead of doing what some old ladies say.
evp	lengthen	verb	1	C1	to become longer or to make something longer	There are plans to lengthen the school day.	Furthermore, I suggest [...] that you lengthen the stay in Cambridge which was definitely too short.
evp	lengthy	adjective	1	C1	continuing for a long time	a lengthy discussion/process	Also, soap operas are lengthy, some famous ones has even been showing for several years, which makes it possible to focus on different aspects of life and different stages in the characters' lives.
evp	lenient	adjective	1	C2	A lenient punishment is not severe.	He asked the judge to pass a lenient sentence.	The Court had been too lenient towards his detested father.
evp	leopard	noun	1	B2	a large wild cat that has yellow fur with black spots on it and lives in Africa and southern Asia	We saw leopards in their natural habitat.	We saw different kinds of animals like a leopard, a buffalo and so on.
evp	less	adverb	1	A2	not as much	Exercise more and eat less.	I prefer summer clothes because they're less heavy than the winter ones.
evp	less	adverb	2	B2	almost or approximately	They have more or less completed the work on the house.	I will now give you some information, so that you know more or less what you can expect.
evp	lessen	verb	1	C1	to become less or to make something less	Exercise and a healthy diet lessen the chance of heart disease.	Should you give back the students' money and take into consideration our complaints, I am sure that you will lessen our disappointment.
evp	lesson	noun	1	A1	a period of time when a teacher teaches people	How can we make science lessons more interesting?	One lesson takes 45 minutes.
evp	lesson	noun	2	B2	an experience that teaches you how to behave better in a similar situation in the future	There is a lesson in this tragic accident.	I think he learned a valuable lesson.
evp	lesson	noun	3	B2	to decide not to do something again because it has caused you problems in the past	I'm not going out without my umbrella again - I've learned my lesson!	Actually, I am happy to hear that journalists have learned their lesson from the death of Princess Diana and try to let her children and the Royal family have more privacy.
evp	lesson	noun	4	C2	to punish someone so that they will not behave badly again	The next time she's late, go without her. That should teach her a lesson.	He didn't want to hurt Diane just teach her a lesson.
evp	lethal	adjective	1	C2	able to cause death	a lethal injection/weapon	If we learn from the mistakes and there are no more wars, governments will donate money to social needs rather than assigning enormous sums on maintaining huge armies and inventing new types of lethal weapons.
evp	letter	noun	1	A1	a written message that you send to someone, usually in the mail	I got a letter from Francine this morning.	I got your letter yesterday.
evp	letter	noun	2	A2	a symbol that is used in written language and that represents a sound in that language	the letter D	I bought a pair of yellow and blue jeans. . . . And also a green T-shirt with letters on it.
evp	lettuce	noun	1	B1	a plant with large green leaves, eaten raw in salads	Do you want lettuce and tomato on your sandwich?	It contains two burgers, cheese, lettuce, tomato and any]thin else that you want to put i] it.
evp	level	noun	1	A2	someone's ability compared to other people	a course for beginner/intermediate/advanced level students	The level is elementary.
evp	level	noun	2	B2	the amount or number of something	He achieved a high level of skill as an interpreter.	Your body requires a high level of nutrients to keep body functions working smoothly.
evp	level	noun	3	B2	the height of something	The water level in the lake is much higher after a heavy rain.	Also, due to global warming, sea levels might rise and the risk of flooding will also rise.
evp	level	noun	4	C1	a position within a system in which people are arranged according to their importance	These are subjects for discussion at management level.	But there is one big problem if the women can reach the upper management level: those women won't have any children.
evp	level	adjective	1	B2	flat or horizontal	The floor isn't level.	
evp	liability	noun	1	C1	when you are legally responsible for something	They have admitted liability for the damage caused.	As soon as I had noticed it, I went to complain to the driver and he just disclaimed liability.
evp	liability	noun	2	C1	someone or something that is likely to cause you a lot of trouble	Wherever we go she upsets someone - she's a real liability.	It destroys the individual, brings shame to his family, and he becomes a liability instead of an asset to his society.
evp	liable	adjective	1	C1	legally responsible	Corporate officials are liable for the safety of their employees.	As per our terms and conditions you are liable to pay for any damages occurred during the move and that is why we paid more money or premium to your Company than the others.
evp	liable	adjective	2	C2	to be likely to do something	He's liable to make a fuss if you wake him.	I have taught them what is right and what is wrong, but also that a person is liable to make mistakes.
evp	liar	noun	1	B2	someone who tells lies	He's such a liar - you can't trust a word he says.	The plan works: the jury thinks that the wife is a notorious liar and her husband is found innocent.
evp	liberal	adjective	1	C1	accepting beliefs and behavior that are new or different from your own	a liberal society/attitude	In a liberal society everything depends on a mixture of wise legislation and responsible individual behavior.
evp	liberal	adjective	2	C1	Liberal political ideas emphasize the need to make new laws as society changes and the need for government to provide social services.	a liberal policy/position	He studied law in Paris and got involved in politics as a member of the liberal party during the first years of the last century.
evp	liberation	noun	1	C1	when something or someone is released or made free	the liberation of France from Nazi occupation	Moreover, with the liberation of Greece, he was appointed as the First Governor of the new state.
evp	liberty	noun	1	B2	the freedom to live as you wish or go where you want	individual liberties	Personally, I think a zoo is a cruel way to im]priso them after such a long period of time when they have been useful to Man, who is now depriving them of their liberty, preventing them from hunting and forcing them to eat what they are given.
evp	liberty	noun	2	C1	to do something that will have an effect on someone else, without asking their permission	I took the liberty of booking theater seats for us.	I have taken the liberty of listing some of my ideas and suggestions and hope they will be of interest to you.
evp	liberty	noun	3	C2	to be allowed to do something	I'm not at liberty to discuss the matter at present.	On the one hand the child is at liberty to do whatever it pleases to do but on the other hand it was never taught the responsibilities implicitly tied to such actions.
evp	library	noun	1	A2	a room or building that contains a collection of books and other written material that you can read or borrow	a public/school library	It's important because I want some books from the library, and without a library card [I] can't take any out]
evp	license	noun	1	A2	an official document that allows you to do or have something	a fishing/driver's license	I would like to sell my bicycle. I have used it for two years. I don't need it, because I've got a driv[er’s] license.
evp	lick	verb	1	B2	to move your tongue across the surface of something	He licked the chocolate off his fingers.	As soon as I come home, she jumps on me and licks my face. [...] Princess is my ideal dog.
evp	lid	noun	1	B2	a cover on a container, which can be lifted up or removed	Can you get the lid off this jar?	
evp	lie	verb	1	A2	to be in or move your body into a horizontal position	to lie in bed	I think Marmaris is the best place for you because you always want to lie on a beach.
evp	lie	verb	2	B1	to be on a particular surface	A pen lay on the desk.	I hurried into the airport to find my suitcase lying in one corner.
evp	lie	verb	3	B1	to be in a particular place or position	The river lies 40 miles to the south.	It lies in the south of the Czech Republic and it's a lovely place where you can spend your holiday.
evp	lie	verb	4	C2	If responsibility, blame, a decision, a choice, etc., lies with someone, they have responsibility, must make the decision, etc.	Responsibility for the disaster must ultimately lie with the government.	The greater responsibility lies with us to keep our villages and cities clean and, therefore, healthy.
evp	lie	verb	5	C1	If an event or situation that will cause problems lies ahead, it will happen in the future.	He's under no illusions about the difficulties that lie ahead for the industry.	They help prepare our children for what lies ahead of them.
evp	lie	verb	6	A2	to move into a position in which your body is flat, usually in order to sleep or rest	I'm going to lie down and take a short nap.	Sometimes I want to relax and lie down on the bed to watch TV.
evp	lie	verb	1	B1	to say or write something which is not true in order to deceive someone	Are you lying to me?	She lied to me and said she could not come with me because she had work.
evp	lie	noun	1	B1	something that you say which you know is not true	I told a lie when I said I liked her haircut.	The e-]mail was full of lies about things that I had never done.
evp	life	noun	1	A1	the time between a person's birth and their death	Life's too short to worry about money!	Aleksandra likes to do almost everything because she likes life!
evp	life	noun	2	B1	everything which is alive	animal/marine/plant life	I chose to visit the London Aquarium because I had never gone to an aquarium to see sea life before.
evp	life	noun	3	B1	a way of living	You lead an exciting life.	
evp	life	noun	4	B1	one part of someone's existence	I never talk about my private life.	The film is about family life.
evp	life	noun	5	B1	the manner in which a person lives	She told us all about her way of life in Japan.	He told me about his hobbies, his way of life and especially about his love of learning languages.
evp	life	noun	6	B2	the existence of a person	Many lives are lost to TB.	Finally if you witness an accident you should inform the police quickly, which can save lives.
evp	life	noun	7	B2	energy or enthusiasm	She's so full of life.	Above all, I like children very much because the[y're] full of life and always make a great impression on me when I have a chat with them.
evp	life	noun	8	C1	for the whole of someone's life	I will have to take this medicine for life.	A wedding opens a new life when the two parties commit to each other for life.
evp	life	noun	9	C2	the amount of time that a machine, system, etc., exists or can be used	The newer batteries have a much longer life.	
evp	life	noun	10	C2	a serious situation where people could die	Getting water to these people is a matter of life and death.	I told him it was a matter of life and death.
evp	lifelong	adjective	1	C2	for all of your life	a lifelong friend/ambition/interest	Education is a lifelong process and you never stop learning.
evp	life span	noun	1	C2	the amount of time that a person lives or a thing exists	The average human life span has increased steadily over the last century.	Now, that the life span has increased, it is becoming more and more common to see children looking after their elderly parents.
evp	lifestyle	noun	1	B2	the way that you live	He lives a healthy lifestyle.	I would like to go on an adventure like this, with a group of people with different backgrounds, cultures and lifestyles.
evp	lifetime	noun	1	B2	the period of time that someone is alive	I expect to see a lot more technological change during/in my lifetime.	I'm sure you would love it, meeting so many famous musicians, who you might meet only once in a lifetime.
evp	lift	verb	1	B1	to move something from a lower to a higher position	Could you help me lift this table, please?	Then, we lifted weights to get stronger legs, arms, etc. I met different people and I made lots of friends.
evp	lift	noun	1	A2	a free ride somewhere in another person's car	Can you give me a lift to the airport?	My mother will drive us and give us a lift home.
evp	light	noun	1	A2	a piece of equipment which produces light, such as a lamp or a light bulb	Could you turn the light on/off, please?	Dear Nick I'm writing about the concert at school. [...] I can help you on Saturday morning to set up the lights and equipment.
evp	light	noun	2	B1	the brightness that comes from the sun, fire, etc. and from electrical devices, and that allows things to be seen	bright light	I have to buy a lamp for my desk because I don't have much light.
evp	light	noun	3	C1	If something is done or happens in the light of facts, it is done or happens because of those facts.	In light of
the problems we’re having, we have no choice but to close the business.	In light of all the things mentioned above, I strongly recommend Alexandra for the job.
evp	light	noun	4	C2	If information about something comes to light, it is learned or discovered.	She knew that the fraud would eventually come to light.	Nevertheless, during the time they are in the forest, it comes to light that Edward is the weaker character.
evp	light	noun	5	C2	If information is brought to light, it is learned or discovered.	Her research has brought to light new information about Jefferson’s early life.	The evening investigation which was carried out by the mysterious Inspector brought all these facts to light.
evp	light	noun	6	C2	to provide new information about something that makes it easier to understand	As an economist, he was able to shed some light on the situation.	A study of them might shed light on this unique process of adaptation, and may help improve it in the future.
evp	light	adjective	1	A1	Light colors are pale.	light blue/green	I am going to paint it light blue.
evp	light	adjective	2	A2	not heavy	a light summer dress	I bought a coat. I bought it because is very light.
evp	light	adjective	3	B1	lit by the natural light of the day	It gets light very early these summer mornings.	In the center of the town, streets are narrow and in many cases, they ar]en' light enough.
evp	light	adjective	4	B1	small in amount	A light breeze was blowing.	The weather here is very warm and sunny with a light breeze.
evp	light	adjective	5	C2	to talk or behave as if you do not think a problem is serious	I just laughed and tried to make light of it.	They project an optimistic image and make light of the troubles in life.
evp	light	verb	1	B1	to start to burn or to make something start to burn	to light a fire	We put up the tents and lit the fire.
evp	light	verb	2	B2	to produce light somewhere so that you can see things	Fireworks lit up the sky.	Lightning lit up my bedroom and I saw a shadow moving outside the house.
evp	lighter	noun	1	B1	a small object that produces a flame and is used to start something burning	Can I borrow your lighter?	It's a silver lighter, with a little spider on, that my best friend bought me for my birthday.
evp	lighting	noun	1	B2	the light created by electrical equipment, candles, etc.	outdoor lighting	I fixed the lighting on the ceiling and attached several spotlights to the walls.
evp	lightly	adverb	1	B1	gently	She patted him lightly on the shoulder.	The weather here is wonderful, the sun is shining, the wind is blowing lightly, and the sky is also clear, clear, blue!
evp	lightly	adverb	2	C1	not much	lightly cooked vegetables	
evp	lightly	adverb	3	C2	to think carefully about something before you do it, knowing that it is serious	It's not a decision that I take lightly.	I hope you give my suggestion further consideration and not treat it lightly.
evp	lightning	noun	1	B1	a sudden flash of light in the sky during a storm	thunder and lightning	We were sitting in the car when the lightning hit the roof.
evp	like	verb	1	A1	to enjoy something or feel that someone or something is pleasant	I like your new haircut.	I like reading and writing.
evp	like	verb	2	A1	used to say that you want something	I'd like the tomato soup, please.	I would like to study other languages, too.
evp	like	verb	3	A1	used to ask someone if they want something	Would you like a cup of coffee?	Would you like to come?
evp	like	verb	4	A2	used when you offer someone something	If you like, I could drive you there.	If you like, we can go to a night club.
evp	like	noun	1	B1	things that you do and do not like	She knows her children’s likes and dislikes.	The teacher asked about our families, friends, and likes and dislikes and then the lesson finished.
evp	likelihood	noun	1	C2	the chance that something will happen	There’s little likelihood of a compromise.	There is little likelihood of having a good place to live in without the scientists' support.
evp	likelihood	noun	2	C2	almost certainly	The facilities are wasted on people who in all likelihood will not use them.	In all likelihood, you will have to work during the weekends, even in summer, so I firmly believe that loving your job is very important.
evp	likely	adjective	1	B1	describes something that will probably happen or is expected	If I don’t write it down, I’m likely to forget.	They start thinking that the suitcase is likely to contain a bomb.
evp	likely	adverb	1	C1	probably	I’ll most likely get there at about ten o’clock.	You will most likely not get there before 2:30. Welcome!
evp	likewise	adverb	1	C2	in the same way	Water these plants twice a week and likewise the ones in the bedroom.	And likewise, common sense tells us it doesn't matter that oranges from Spain contain 0.01% more vitamin C than those from Florida, as long as we eat them every once in a while.
evp	limit	noun	1	B1	the largest amount of something that is possible or allowed	Is there a limit on the number of tickets you can get?	I always watch this program, it's really interesting for anyone who enjoys cooking. [...] Usually two chefs come in and prepare the food, and they have a time limit.
evp	limit	noun	2	C1	to drive faster than you are allowed to according to the law	She was exceeding the speed limit.	There are three ground rules you have to follow: stop at stop signs, don't exceed the speed limit and don't be in the way of other cars.
evp	limit	verb	1	B2	to control something so that it is less than a particular amount or number	I've been asked to limit my talk to ten minutes.	In general, kids and teenagers are, at home, allowed to do almost anything they want, which sometimes puts parents in a very difficult position when trying to e]stablis rules in order to limit the freedom of the young.
evp	limitation	noun	1	C1	control or rules that limit the size or extent of something	You can't write everything you want because of space limitations.	The only thing that is crucial now is that ministries of culture and tourism should set strict limitations about building and constructing in order not to destroy the stunning views of our beautiful country.
evp	limitation	noun	2	C1	things that someone or something is not good at doing	Both films show her limitations as an actress.	I would like to be a super-woman but I will have to live with my limitations.
evp	limited	adjective	1	B1	small in amount or number	a limited choice	I like warm colors, orange and yellow, but my choices are limited for outdoor clothes.
evp	limited	adjective	2	B2	kept within a particular size, range, time, etc.	The class is limited to fifty students.	Above all, w]oul it possible to enjoy the offer in September or is it limited to July?
evp	line	noun	1	A2	a long, thin mark	a straight line	We have to bring with us only a pencil. Because the first day we will draw lines.
evp	line	noun	2	B1	a group of people standing one behind the other who are waiting for something	Are you in line?	The next day, he was in the airport waiting in line to check in his luggage.
evp	line	noun	3	B1	a row of words on a page	The same line is repeated throughout the poem.	In no more than ten lines, my mother explained that she was moving to Brazilia, the capital of our country, and that she would take me and my brother with her.
evp	line	noun	4	B1	a train route or railroad track	rail/commuter lines	You go up along the Yourou river on the Kominato line and you can find some beautiful places.
evp	line	noun	5	B2	the connection between telephones	That line is busy – may I take a message?	Bedrooms were quite spacious with a lot of light as well as a TV set and a direct phone line.
evp	line	noun	6	C1	a type of product that a company sells	Our new sportswear line will be in stores shortly.	If, on the one hand, the changing market is forcing us to remove some product lines, on the other it is giving us new opportunities, as is the case for handhelds.
evp	line	noun	7	C1	a very small difference between two things that seem very different	There's a fine line between courage and foolishness.	It took me 6 months to realize that there is a fine line between telling off and psychological abuse.
evp	line	noun	8	C2	a row of people or things	a line of trees	Its facade was cut by a line of French windows and there was a large number of people in front of the front door.
evp	line	noun	9	C2	the border of an area within a country	the city/state/county line	
evp	line	noun	10	C2	a long mark on an area where a sport is played that shows an edge or measurement	the foul line	
evp	line	noun	11	C2	a way of dealing with or thinking about something or someone	I couldn’t follow his line of reasoning.	My personal take on this line of thought is that this is a practical and beneficial albeit shallow way to view reading books, reducing reading to a simple pastime.
evp	line	noun	12	C2	a row of positions used to defend against enemy attack, especially the ones closest to enemy positions	They were taken prisoner while on a reconnaissance mission behind enemy lines.	She was never afraid of going to the front line in battle.
evp	line	noun	13	C2	If someone's job, reputation, life, etc., is on the line, they may lose it.	If we don't win the contract, all our jobs are on the line.	The person who hopes to achieve success shouldn't be afraid of taking risks and sometimes putting his or her career on the line for the sake of gaining much bigger benefits.
evp	line	noun	14	C2	the most important fact of final result in an activity, discussion, or situation	The bottom line is that they lost the game.	The bottom line is that the adults of today have to stop for a second and think about what they are doing.
evp	line	noun	15	C2	based on and similar to something	He gave a talk along the lines of the one he gave in Oxford.	Imagine one is encouraged by friends and institutions for their 'different' artistic or other activities, even if their works are not along the lines of 'acceptable' norms and tradition.
evp	line	noun	16	C2	to be similar to and suitable for something	They were offered a pay increase in line with inflation.	The other two courses, at 5%, are still in line with the national average.
evp	line	noun	17	C2	in the future	Lots of things will have changed a few years down the road.	For that very reason it seemed natural for Laura and John to take her in, and further down the line they would adopt her.
evp	line	noun	18	C2	If someone says they know where to draw the line, they are talking about knowing at what point an activity or situation becomes unacceptable because it is wrong or too extreme	I’ll do what I can to help a friend, but I draw the line when someone asks me to lie for them.	For these parents, drawing the line at certain behaviors became a synonym for lack of democracy, and a source of struggle at home.
evp	line	noun	19	C2	If someone's actions or words are out of line, they are beyond what is considered acceptable in that situation.	You can disagree with her, but calling her dishonest was way out of line.	Today I see that my mother was right in this aspect since I acted extremely out of line sometimes and a soft hand certainly wouldn't help me in the future.
evp	line	noun	20	C2	If you read between the lines, you understand what something really means when it hasn't been directly said or written.	Reading between the lines, it was obvious that something was wrong.	All songs send positive thoughts and messages to listeners, although sometimes you really have to read between the lines to understand this profound message.
evp	line	verb	1	C2	to form a row along the side of something	Trees and cafes lined the street.	Under the arch formed by the top branches of the trees which lined both sides of the street, she was so much absorbed in her thought that she did not hear the sound of approaching steps.
evp	line	verb	2	B2	to arrange people or things in a row or to stand in a row	A fight broke out behind me as we lined up to receive our food rations.	A lot of customers had lined up after me.
evp	line	verb	3	C1	to plan for something to happen	What future projects have you lined up?	Nonetheless, we are also eager to help out in other projects that you have lined up.
evp	linger	verb	1	C2	to stay somewhere for a long time	The smell from the fire still lingered hours later.	Many recollections of that evening have perished, like how I worked up the nerve to ask her, but one thing that lingers in my mind is that song we danced to.
evp	linguistic	adjective	1	C1	relating to language or the study of language	I'm particularly interested in the linguistic development of young children.	Firstly, the claim that only one hour per day was required in order to obtain linguistic fluency is an unrealistic assumption.
evp	link	noun	1	B1	a connection between documents or areas on the Internet	Click on this link to visit our online bookstore.	An au-pair friend of mine has given me a link to an au-pair homepage.
evp	link	noun	2	B2	a connection between two people, things, or ideas	There's a link between diet and heart disease.	There is a direct bus link between the two locations: this is bus line number six.
evp	link	verb	1	B2	to make a connection between two or more people, things, or ideas	The use of CFCs has been linked to the hole in the ozone layer.	The technological revolution taking place today can be directly linked to the amazing evolution of communication.
evp	lion	noun	1	A2	a large, wild animal of the cat family, with light brown fur	The lions came down to the water hole at sunset.	My favorite present is a lion.
evp	lip	noun	1	B1	one of the two soft edges of the mouth	He licked his lips.	We went to a restaurant and when I had to leave, he kissed me on my lips.
evp	liquid	noun	1	B1	a substance, such as water, that is not solid or a gas and that can be poured easily	liquid fuel/nitrogen	Inside there were three samples of a nasty purple liquid.
evp	list	noun	1	A2	a series of names, numbers, or items that are written one below the other	a shopping list	[Our] class teacher will give us a list of things we must buy.
evp	list	verb	1	B2	to make a list, or to include something in a list	I've listed some useful reading material on the handout.	I listed some reasons why we should apply for this job.
evp	listen	verb	1	A1	to give attention to someone or something in order to hear them	What kind of music do you listen to?	She likes to listen to oriental music and Turkish music.
evp	listen	verb	2	B1	to pay attention to what someone tells you and accept what they say	I told you she wouldn't like it but you wouldn't listen to me!	I did complain many times but he wouldn't listen to me.
evp	listen	verb	3	C2	to secretly listen to someone else's conversation	Do you think he's been listening in on our conversations?	As John kept coming back late from work and giving the same kind of excuse, Maria decided to bug his phone at work as well as his workplace and then began to listen in on him.
evp	listener	noun	1	C1	someone who listens	The new radio station already has twelve million listeners.	She is a good listener, as well as quite talkative.
evp	liter	noun	1	A2	a unit for measuring the volume of a liquid, equal to 1.057 quarts	a liter of water/soda	Also try to drink at least 2 liters of water a day.
evp	literacy	noun	1	C1	the ability to read and write	Adult literacy is low in this area.	School on the one hand has been a place to learn the important basics, like literacy and numeracy.
evp	literal	adjective	1	C2	The literal meaning of a word or phrase is its real or original meaning.	the literal meaning/sense	First of all, some people treasure certain possessions since they are valuable in its literal meaning, like diamonds or gold.
evp	literally	adverb	1	B2	having the real or original meaning of a word or phrase	There were literally hundreds of pages to read in the contract.	Sometimes they literally go mad; they bite their mates or even kill their own children.
evp	literary	adjective	1	B2	connected with literature	a literary critic	Since I am aware of your interest in literature, I have chosen a literary figure.
evp	literate	adjective	1	C2	able to read and write	He was barely literate.	To sum up, in no way is education a waste of time. What we do need is to improve it and make people believe that being educated and literate is a great asset.
evp	literature	noun	1	B1	books, poems, etc. that are considered to be art	American/French/world literature	He has studied English literature at Cambridge University.
evp	litter	noun	1	B2	pieces of paper and other waste that are left in public places	The streets were full of litter.	There is a lot of litter on the streets.
evp	little	adjective	1	A1	small in size or amount	It came in a little box.	When I am swimming, I can see the little fish.
evp	little	adjective	2	A1	young	When you were little your hair was really curly.	She has a little boy.
evp	little	adjective	3	B1	not important	I had a little problem with my car, but it’s fixed now.	There is only one little problem. Unfortunately, the rooms are single.
evp	little	adjective	4	B2	short in time or distance	It’ll take me a little while longer to get ready.	I was on a phone for a little while and the lights went out... who knows why!!
evp	little	adjective	5	B2	used to show affection or dislike for someone or something	Oh, what a nice little house!	"Oh no Mr. Dracula...don't hurt me! Please don't hurt me!" I said desperately. "With such a pretty little neck? Oh no! I have to give you just a tiny little bite..."
evp	little	adverb	1	A2	slightly	I was a little bit worried by what she said.	It's a little bit expensive but it is so awesome!
evp	little	adverb	2	B2	slightly	You’re walking a little too fast for me.	I'm a little surprised by my "popularity".
evp	little	adverb	3	C1	not much or not enough	a little-known fact	Little did I know that I would be even more confused afterward.
evp	little	adverb	4	C2	not much more or better	Their house was little more than a hovel.	It was little better than a slum, completely unfurnished, except for a desk with a diary on it.
evp	lively	adjective	1	B1	full of energy and interest	It's hard work teaching a class of lively children.	Paris is very lively all day long and at night.
evp	liver	noun	1	B2	a large organ in your body that cleans your blood	He has something wrong with his liver.	Peter knew that her injuries would not be a problem, except her liver. That is why the surgeon asked him if he could give his sister a part of his liver.
evp	living	adjective	1	B2	alive now	living things/creatures/organisms	Environmental protection activists point out that living creatures shouldn't be deprived of their natural background and most endangered species could be saved from extinction by creating more national parks.
evp	living	noun	1	B2	the money that you earn from your job	What do you do for a living?	You should try to earn a living from painting.
evp	living room	noun	1	A1	the room in a house where people sit to relax and, for example, watch television	We had dinner in the living room and watched a movie on TV.	My favorite room is the living room because it's the biggest in my house.
evp	loaf	noun	1	B2	bread that has been baked in one large piece so that it can be cut into smaller pieces	a loaf of bread	I was often sent by my mother to the next shop to buy a loaf of bread, some milk and sometimes fruit and vegetables.
evp	loan	noun	1	B1	money that someone has borrowed	She's going to take out a loan to start her own business.	From the program they learn a lot about funding or getting a loan from a bank.
evp	loan	noun	2	C1	If something is on loan, someone is borrowing it.	Both paintings are on loan from the city museum.	For example, you can always take out on loan any video you like from our center.
evp	loathe	verb	1	C2	to hate someone or something	I absolutely loathe swimming.	Even those obscure and never-pay-attention subjects that we totally loathe might give us food for thought regardless of what we will end up studying.
evp	loathing	noun	1	C2	a feeling of hating someone or something	All I feel for him is loathing.	Both characters are torn between their feelings of awe and loathing for India, although Olivia's relationship with this country is one of submission and devotion.
evp	lobby	noun	1	B2	an area inside the main entrance of a building	the hotel/building lobby	He unpacked his things, took a shower and went to the lobby to wait for Hanna.
evp	lobby	verb	1	C2	to try to persuade the government or an official group to do something	Small businesses have lobbied hard for/against changes in the tax laws.	They have become so powerful through their vast sales and profits that they can effectively lobby for their points of view.
evp	local	adjective	1	B1	relating to an area near you	a local accent	You could go walking in the countryside, try water sports, enjoy the local food (especially the "galettes") and visit the city of Rennes.
evp	local	noun	1	C2	someone who lives in the area you are talking about	The locals are very upset about the new law.	However, it is inadvisable to confront the locals with prejudices or exaggerated expectations they cannot live up to.
evp	location	noun	1	B1	a place or position	The hotel is in a lovely location overlooking the lake.	The village is in a peaceful location, within minutes of a safe lake, and an hour from a pretty town.
evp	location	noun	2	C1	If a film or television program is made on location, it is made at a place suitable to the story.	The movie was shot on location in Kenya.	We can't help mentioning the nice shots on location.
evp	lock	noun	1	B1	the thing that is used to close a door, window, etc., and that needs a key to open it	I heard someone turn a key in the lock.	At the hotel, in my room I tried to open my suitcase but the lock didn't move.
evp	lock	verb	1	B1	to fasten something with a key, or to be fastened with a key	Don't forget to lock the door when you go out.	Yesterday at about 11:10 p.m. I went to lock my garage.
evp	lock	verb	2	C2	to put something or someone in a place or container that is fastened with a key	The jewelry is locked away in a safe.	With large sums of money locked away in their banks, they decided to destroy the notes in they made during the discovery, to prevent any thieves from stealing the secret.
evp	lock	verb	3	B2	to prevent someone from leaving or prevent others from entering a room or building by locking a door	She locked herself in her bedroom.	My mother was about to die from her agony while my father was trying to find a way to lock me in.
evp	lock	verb	4	B2	to prevent someone from entering a room or building by locking a door	I can't believe I've locked myself out again!	In the very early morning, my husband and I heard a lot of noise at the front door and I went to see if Kate was locked out.
evp	loft	noun	1	C2	the space under the roof of a house, often used for storing things	We keep things like suitcases and holiday decorations in the loft.	It has lots of room - two bedrooms, a spacious living room, a kitchen that's well lit and even a loft for storage.
evp	loft	noun	2	C2	a large, open apartment, often in a former industrial building	They've bought a loft downtown that has huge windows.	
evp	loft	noun	3	C2	a small room under a high ceiling that has only three walls and overlooks a larger room below	We use the loft as a library and guest room.	What is extra (and makes it unique in this street) is the downstairs shower room, separate utility room and very large loft room.
evp	log	noun	1	C1	a thick piece of tree trunk or branch, especially one cut for burning on a fire	Let's put another log on the fire.	People used to cook with fire logs but they don't do it any more.
evp	log	verb	1	B2	to start using a computer or to connect a computer to a system of computers by typing a password and sometimes your name	I tried to log on as usual but nothing happened.	Well you need a computer and you have to log on to the Internet.
evp	log	verb	2	B2	to stop using a computer or program or to stop a computer being connected to a computer system	We were all asked to log off while some changes were made to the system.	I know that most students just log off the computers, but they are still switched on and use energy.
evp	logic	noun	1	C1	the use of reason, or the science of using reason	I fail to see the logic of his argument.	It lacked any logic or interest for me.
evp	logical	adjective	1	B2	using reason	a logical choice/conclusion	When someone is logical and smart and loves life, he is not in danger when he drives a car.
evp	logically	adverb	1	C2	in a way that is logical	Her ideas were clear and logically presented.	Her intuition failed her, and neither could she find the answer logically.
evp	logo	noun	1	B1	a design or symbol used by a company to advertise its products	a corporate logo	I have also bought some new tee-shirt[s]: one blue, one green with a white logo and one red.
evp	loneliness	noun	1	C1	the state of being lonely	I wasn't prepared for the loneliness of living in a small village.	Frankenstein is a book that explores the feelings of loneliness and solitude, and the consequences that this has on human relationships.
evp	lonely	adjective	1	B1	unhappy because you are not with other people	She gets lonely now that all the kids have left home.	If they had not been there, I would have been very lonely.
evp	lonely	adjective	2	B2	A lonely place is a long way from where people live.	a lonely stretch of Arizona highway	In this lonely place strange things happened.
evp	long	adjective	1	A1	continuing for a large amount of time	a long movie/meeting	I want to eat food from Brazil because I have lived in England for a long time and I am missing food from my country.
evp	long	adjective	2	A1	having a large distance from one end to the other	long hair	I like to go for a long walk.
evp	long	adjective	3	A2	describes a piece of writing which has a lot of pages or words	a long letter/book/report	Thank you for your long letter, it was very interesting.
evp	long	adverb	1	A2	for a long time	I'm just writing a letter but it won't take long.	It doesn't last longer than 45 minutes.
evp	long	adverb	2	B1	for the whole day	We've been walking all day long.	We talked all day long, about many things.
evp	long	adverb	3	B1	used to say that something must happen before something else can happen	I can come as long as I can leave by 4:00.	The colors I wear are not important, as long as I don't wear any pink clothes. I really dislike that color.
evp	long	adverb	4	B1	in the past but not now	The theater is no longer used.	The main reason is that my wife got pregnant and therefore a one-bedroom house is no longer suitable for us.
evp	long	adverb	5	B2	soon	They'll be home before very long.	Before long they realized that most of the animals which lived there could be big business in Europe.
evp	long	adverb	6	C1	for a long time	We didn't have to wait for long.	My parents generation, however, would not identify with this lifestyle for long.
evp	long	adverb	1	A2	for a long time	I'm just writing a letter but it won't take long.	It doesn't last longer than 45 minutes.
evp	long	adverb	2	B1	for the whole day	We've been walking all day long.	Oh, I almost forgot to tell you about my Japanese stones where I listen to music all day long.
evp	long	adverb	3	B1	used to say that something must happen before something else can happen	I can come as long as I can leave by 4.00.	The colours I wear are not important, as long as I don't wear any pink clothes. I really dislike that colour.
evp	long	adverb	4	B1	in the past but not now	The cinema is no longer used.	The main reason is that my wife got pregnant and therefore a one-bedroom house is no longer suitable for us.
evp	long	adverb	5	B2	soon	They'll be home before very long.	Before long they realized that most of the animals which lived there could be big business in Europe.
evp	long	adverb	6	C1	If something happened long ago, it happened a great amount of time ago.	I think we met once, long ago.	Not so long ago, you could ring each Dutch doorbell of your choice at 6 pm and you'd find the whole family gathered around the kitchen table, having their supper.
evp	long	adverb	7	C2	a long period of time before something	I was a vegetarian long before I met Sally.	The cups belonged to my family long before I was born and the fact they are a part of my family tradition makes them valuable in my eyes.
evp	long	verb	1	C2	to want something very much	She longed to see him again.	Of course I longed for my home and missed my relatives and friends, but I was so excited by everything the exchange could offer that I cannot recall any really sad day during my stay in Germany.
evp	long-distance	adjective	1	B2	traveling or communicating between two places that are a long way apart	a long-distance runner	I've also made some long-distance calls which I'd like to pay for.
evp	longevity	noun	1	C2	having a long life	To what do you attribute your longevity?	The problem does not end there, as the unemployed present a strain on the social welfare systems, which are already overtaxed due to sinking birth numbers and rising longevity.
evp	longing	noun	1	C2	a feeling of wanting something or someone very much	a longing for his homeland	These elements, together with the longing for independence, can help you reach your goal.
evp	long-lasting	adjective	1	C2	continuing for a long period of time	Theirs was a long-lasting friendship.	People with these qualities are most able to provide me with what I like: fun, attention, good conversations and long-lasting relationships.
evp	long-running	adjective	1	C2	having continued for a long time	a long-running musical	
evp	long-term	adjective	1	B2	continuing a long time into the future	long-term unemployment	I was deeply impressed by the long-term cooperation between the zoo and the school.
evp	long-time	adjective	1	C1	describes someone who has been in a particular position for a long period	A long-time friend of the chairman said she had expected the resignation.	I have now known her for 13 years both as a student and on a familiar level, since I am a long-time friend of her husband's.
evp	look	verb	1	A1	to turn your eyes in the direction of something or someone so that you can see them	Look! There's grandma.	I like walking around these lakes and looking at the ducks and swans.
evp	look	verb	2	A1	to try to find someone or something	I'm looking for my keys.	I am looking for a new T-shirt.
evp	look	verb	3	A2	used to describe the appearance of a person or thing	That food looks nice.	Well, the paint I am going to use is light pink as it will look nice.
evp	look	verb	4	B1	used to describe the appearance of a person or thing	He looked like a nice guy.	It was dark on the street but I remember what the thief looked like.
evp	look	verb	5	B1	used to say that something is likely to happen	It looks as if there'll only be three of us going on Sunday.	It's cold and I think I will have to buy an umbrella because it looks as if it'll rain.
evp	look	verb	6	B2	used to describe the appearance of a person or thing	Bradley looked as if he had seen a ghost.	The dress is made of bright blue silk, it's long and looks as if it was made for a queen.
evp	look	verb	7	B2	to face a particular direction	The garden looks south.	I would like a room which looks out onto the garden.
evp	look	verb	8	C1	to find good things in a bad situation	Look on the bright side - no one was badly hurt.	I am quite self-confident and I usually look on the bright side, as I am not interested in pessimistic thoughts.
evp	look	verb	9	C2	to plan to do something	I'm looking to start my own business.	
evp	look	verb	10	A2	to take care of someone or something by keeping them healthy or in good condition	We look after our neighbors' cat while they're away.	[They] didn't go with us because they had to look after their children.
evp	look	verb	11	C2	to think about what will happen in the future and plan for these events	I'm looking ahead to next year and figuring out our staffing needs.	One must always look ahead to the future and try to progress.
evp	look	verb	12	B1	to visit a place and look at the things in it	It's such a beautiful city, it's a shame we didn't have more time to look around.	There are lots of museums in our city and you can enjoy looking around some of them.
evp	look	verb	13	B2	to think about a subject carefully so that you can make a decision about it	Management is looking at ways of cutting costs.	I think we should look at this problem in a wider way]
evp	look	verb	14	B2	to read something in order to check it or form an opinion about it	Can you look at my essay sometime?	I was sitting in our coffee-room at school, looking at my homework while waiting for someone else to show up.
evp	look	verb	15	B2	If someone, usually an expert, looks at something, they examine it.	Did you get the doctor to look at your knee?	
evp	look	verb	16	B2	to think about something that happened in the past	Looking back, I can see where we went wrong.	When I look back on the summer we spent together, I feel miserable and sometimes I burst into tears.
evp	look	verb	17	B2	to think that someone is less important than you	I always felt she looked down on me because I wasn't as educated as she was.	They never humiliate or look down on you just because you are a foreigner.
evp	look	verb	18	B1	to feel happy and excited about something that is going to happen	I'm really looking forward to my vacation.	I'm looking forward to seeing you soon.
evp	look	verb	19	B2	used at the end of a formal letter to say you hope to hear from or see someone soon, or that you expect something from them	I look forward to hearing from you.	I look forward to hearing from you.
evp	look	verb	20	B2	to examine the facts about a situation	We're looking into the possibility of merging the two departments.	Moreover, if we look into the matter in a conscious way, we can easily notice that we are leaving our forests and nature, in general, without any wild animals whatsoever.
evp	look	verb	21	C1	to consider someone or something in a particular way	We looked on her as a daughter.	In some cases this can be looked upon as an asset.
evp	look	verb	22	B1	something you say when someone is in danger	Look out - there's a car coming!	"Look out, it's very dangerous".
evp	look	verb	23	C1	to examine something quickly	I'm just looking over what you've written.	I looked over the paper I had been given.
evp	look	verb	24	B2	to read something	I've looked through a few catalogues.	So I suggest you look through that magazine in order to find something else that interests you.
evp	look	verb	25	B1	to try to find a piece of information by looking in a book or on a computer	If you don't know what the word means, look it up in a dictionary.	If you have unfamiliar words, you can look up these words in a dictionary.
evp	look	verb	26	C1	to become better	Our financial situation is looking up.	The business is looking up and I have to cook many more things.
evp	look	verb	27	B2	to respect and admire someone	She really looks up to her father.	Nowadays people in Sweden and all over the world are looking up to Zlatan, and many young boys from his area in Sweden see him as a role model.
evp	look	noun	1	B1	when you look at someone or something	She gave him a look of real dislike.	I went to have a look and I was very surprised!
evp	look	noun	2	B1	when you look for someone or something	I had another look for the watch, but couldn't find it.	Should I have a look for cheap hotels?
evp	look	noun	3	B2	an expression on someone's face	She had a worried look about her.	China was attacking France, everyone started screaming, and the look of panic on my history teacher['s] face was almost funny.
evp	look	noun	4	B2	the appearance of someone or something	They liked the look of the hotel, but it was too expensive.	We have to make it more attractive to them by improving the look of our town.
evp	look	noun	5	C1	a style or fashion	thenew look for the summer	Shopping [...] gives you a feeling of being in another world, a world where dreams can come true - dreams of becoming more beautiful by buying new clothes and accessories for the new look you have always wanted.
evp	look	noun	6	C2	a person's appearance, especially how attractive they are	I was attracted to him because of his looks.	At last, she arrived in time for the ball held that night, and everybody was charmed by her looks and manners.
evp	loom	verb	1	C2	to appear as a large, sometimes frightening shape	Dark storm clouds loomed on the horizon.	Situated in the heart of Salford's concrete slum, the old soap factory loomed before him.
evp	loom	verb	2	C2	If an unpleasant event looms, it is likely to happen soon.	The threat of closure looms over the workforce.	Unless steps are taken soon, the future will continue to loom less assured.
evp	loom	verb	3	C2	If something looms large, it becomes very important and often causes worry.	The issue of pay will loom large at this year's conference.	It was, she dreaded to admit, a sense of regret. She shock her head as if doing so shooed the feeling away. On the contrary, however, it was looming large while she was stamping along the busy street.
evp	loose	adjective	1	B1	large and not fitting tightly	Wear comfortable, loose clothing to your exercise class.	I even like wearing loose T-shirts.
evp	loose	adjective	2	B2	not firmly attached in place	I’d better sew that loose button before it comes off.	I now wear my long hair loose and I have dyed it black.
evp	loose	adjective	3	C2	not tightly controlled or not exact	It's a fairly loose adaptation of the novel.	
evp	loosen	verb	1	C2	to become loose or make something loose	He loosened his tie.	Do we not want our children to be as happy as possible? By loosening their ropes, we enable them to choose the way most suitable for themselves.
evp	loosen	verb	2	C2	to become more relaxed with other people	After a while he loosened up.	What is sure is that one needs to find something that will make him loosen up.
evp	lose	verb	1	A2	to not be able to find someone or something	I've lost my passport.	I think that I lost my ring.
evp	lose	verb	2	B1	to stop having something that you had before	Many people will lose their jobs if the comapny goes out of business.	Actually, I lost my job last week.
evp	lose	verb	3	B1	to fail to succeed in a game, competition, etc.	If we lose this game, we're out of the championship.	We were in the final, but we lost it.
evp	lose	verb	4	B1	to have less of something than you had before	I'm trying to lose weight.	I want to borrow your bicycle because I am getting fat and I need it to do some training to lose weight.
evp	lose	verb	5	B2	to die	Millions of young men lost their lives in the war.	A man who has experience after a lot of years driving is less likely to lose his life in an accident than another new driver.
evp	lose	verb	6	B2	to stop feeling something good	I'm rapidly losing interest in the whole subject.	Moreover the microphone suddenly wouldn't work anymore, and even though I desperately tried to speak up, people began to lose interest in both my speech and me and simply started to talk to each other instead.
evp	lose	verb	7	B2	to suddenly become angry	When I feel like I'm about to lose my temper, I just leave the room.	Yesterday, I must confess, I lost my temper with my son.
evp	lose	verb	8	B2	to waste something such as time or an opportunity	Four million hours at work were lost last year through stress-related illnesses.	You lose a lot of time when you have to find a place to park.
evp	lose	verb	9	B2	to stop communicating with someone, usually because they do not live near you now	We lost touch over the years.	Without a computer and a telephone, I can't contact her easily and I may lose touch with her.
evp	lose	verb	10	B2	to not know what is happening to someone or something any more	I've lost track of how much we've spent.	And, do you remember the time we went for a walk and lost track of time?
evp	lose	verb	11	B2	to become unable to speak, often because of an illness	She had a bad cold and was losing her voice.	I immediately became agitated and at the precise moment of my speech I lost my voice completely.
evp	lose	verb	12	C1	to make less money than you spend	He lost a lot of money when he sold his house.	The reported information about the income was completely wrong; in fact, the target figure we had set has been fully reached and this obviously means that the hospital didn't lose any money.
evp	lose	verb	13	C1	to fall because you are leaning too much to one side	He lost his balance and fell down the stairs.	The most exciting part was when we accidently hit a rock and I lost my balance and fell into the cold water.
evp	lose	verb	14	C1	to stop being calm in a difficult situation	I saw the fire and I lost my head.	She has never lost her head in dangerous situations and she always knows what to do.
evp	lose	verb	15	C2	to become less respected by others because of something you did	She had to find a way to accept defeat without losing face.	However, many popular people like Pierce Brosnan managed to keep their lives out of the press and yet be present to meet public demand without losing face.
evp	lose	verb	16	C2	to suddenly become very angry	She lost her cool and started shouting.	
evp	lose	verb	17	C2	to forget how many of something there is	I've lost count of how many of times she's been late.	I lost count of how often I heard this sentence when I used to work for a drug company.
evp	lose	verb	18	C2	to forget about an important idea or fact because you are thinking too much about other, less important things	We mustn't lose sight of the original aims of this project.	Little do we realize that in the process we lose sight of the fundamentals, which in this case is the protection of our environment.
evp	lose	verb	19	C2	to worry about something	I know she's angry with me, but I'm not losing any sleep over it.	[There] was just one house, a magnificent mansion behind a high fence, that bothered me a bit. No one from there came to meet me. But in the hassle of the first few weeks I was simply too busy to lose any sleep over it.
evp	loss	noun	1	B2	when you no longer have something or have less of something	Many parents feel a sense of loss when their children leave home.	I had been working on this manuscript for an article in a computer magazine on the topic "How to prevent loss of data if the electric power is cut off."
evp	loss	noun	2	B2	the death of a person	They never got over the loss of their son.	And so John remained alone, haunted by the terrible loss.
evp	loss	noun	3	C1	when a business spends more money than it earns	The company’s losses over the last few years have been staggering.	It suffered a major loss over a period of 15 years, roughly from 1978 to 1994.
evp	loss	noun	4	C2	a disadvantage caused by someone leaving an organization	It would be a great loss to the department if you left.	It will be a great loss for Germany when he retires.
evp	loss	noun	5	C2	not knowing what to do	I'm at a loss to explain his disappearance.	And now I am completely at a loss what to write next.
evp	loss	noun	6	C2	not knowing what to say	The question was unexpected and she was temporarily at a loss for words.	If it was James I would be at a loss for words, I didn't know what to tell him.
evp	lost	adjective	1	A2	not knowing where you are or where you should go	I got lost driving home.	I hope you don't get lost!
evp	lost	adjective	2	B1	If something is lost, no one knows where it is.	a lost book	He went to that tree and there it was, the lost suitcase.
evp	lost	adjective	3	C1	to be unable to live or work without someone or something	She's lost without her computer.	It showed us how we would be lost without this transportation system.
evp	lost	adjective	4	C1	not knowing what to do in a new situation	It was his first day in the office and he seemed a bit lost.	I would recommend a visit to a restaurant or the theater the first evening. I can imagine that some of the guests felt a bit lost.
evp	lottery	noun	1	B1	a system for selling numbered tickets to people who then have a chance of winning a prize if their number is chosen	Even if she won the lottery, Paige says she’d still keep her job.	I got a phone call from a lottery company and they said I had won the lottery with a 100 million dollar prize]
evp	loud	adjective	1	A2	making a lot of noise	a loud noise/voice	We were dancing then the police arrived, because of the loud music.
evp	loud	adverb	1	B1	loudly	Could you speak a little louder, please?	I cried louder.
evp	loud	adverb	2	B1	If you say or read something out loud, you say or read it so that other people can hear you.	I had to read the essay out loud in front of the whole school.	She wouldn't accept it so I read it out loud for her to hear: "Director, Jason Meyer, and producer, Sami Woods, are receiving...".
evp	loudly	adverb	1	B1	in a way that makes a lot of noise	They were all talking loudly.	The only thing is that he fell asleep at the end of the day and he was snoring loudly!
evp	lounge	noun	1	C1	a room in a hotel, theater, school, etc., where people can relax or wait	a faculty lounge	In the central lounge you'll find an automatic bus ticket machine.
evp	love	verb	1	A1	to like something very much	She loves animals.	I love skiing.
evp	love	verb	2	A1	to like a friend or a person in your family very much	He loves his kids.	I love my son and my girlfriend.
evp	love	verb	3	A1	to like someone very much and have romantic feelings for them	Last night he told me he loved me.	Stan is from Poland. He is my husband. I love him.
evp	love	verb	4	A2	used to say that you would very much like something	I'd love some chocolate right now!	I'd love some chops and beer.
evp	love	verb	5	A2	used to say that you would very much like to do something that someone has suggested	"Would you like to come to the concert with us?" "I'd love to."	Yes, I'd love to come with you.
evp	love	noun	1	A2	something you write at the end of a letter, e-mail, etc. to a friend or someone in your family	Love, Mom	Lots of love,
evp	love	noun	2	B1	when you like a friend or person in your family very much	Nothing is as strong as the love you have for your kids.	Give my love to your family. All the best,
evp	love	noun	3	B1	when you like someone very much and have romantic feelings for them	He's madly in love with her.	I fell in love with him.
evp	love	noun	4	B1	a person that you love and feel attracted to	He was the love of my life.	It was from the love of my life.
evp	love	noun	5	B2	something that interests you a lot	I don't share my brother's love of sports.	Both of them symbolize courage, love of justice, fight for freedom, which makes them look like heroes.
evp	love	noun	6	C2	an activity that is hard work but which you do because you enjoy it	He prefers to paint the house himself - it's a labor of love.	
evp	lovely	adjective	1	B2	pleasant or enjoyable	We had a lovely time in Greece.	I had a lovely time there.
evp	lovely	adjective	2	B2	attractive and beautiful	You look lovely in that dress.	The best time of the year would be spring because the weather will be warmer and there will be a lot of lovely flowers and the view on the mountains will be great.
evp	lover	noun	1	B1	If two people are lovers, they have a romantic or physical relationship.	They were friends before they became lovers.	I was reading "Romeo and Juliet" by W. Shakespeare when I suddenly decided to leave and visit Verona, the lovers' city.
evp	lover	noun	2	B1	someone who is very interested in books, cats, dogs, etc.	an opera lover	Brazil is a very big country and perfect for nature lovers.
evp	low	adjective	1	A2	small in amount, size or level	low temperatures	There were beautiful clothes for low prices.
evp	low	adjective	2	B1	not high	a low fence	When I stay at home, I wear jeans, t-shirts, low shoes.
evp	low	adjective	3	B2	of bad quality, especially when referring to something that is not as good as it should be	low standards/quality	However, it is necessary to add that few people could afford much food because of poverty and the low quality of life which they had.
evp	low	adjective	4	B2	deep or quiet	a low voice	Right after I had said that, I noticed that someone was pointing at me with a gun, and a low voice said: "If I were you I wouldn't move, follow me."
evp	low	adjective	5	C1	not important or powerful	low rank/status	Luminaries claim that the team spirit and the sense of competition have vanished, and it has been proven that exercise has a low priority compared to other recreational activities.
evp	low	adjective	6	C1	unhappy and without energy	She’s feeling pretty low because she failed her driver’s test.	She never feels low and I am in high spirits being with her because she has got a sense of humor.
evp	low	adjective	7	C1	to try not to be noticed	She has kept a low profile since the divorce.	Finally, I believe that the best way to handle these issues is to try to keep a low profile at all times and to remain indifferent to gossip.
evp	low	adverb	1	B1	at or to a small amount or level	Temperatures can fall as low as -20 degrees.	The lights are down low.
evp	lower	verb	1	B2	to move something into a low position	I lowered the blinds to block out the afternoon sun.	But when she asked who wanted to be a cleaner, nobody raised his hand and I felt so a]shame[d that I lowered my head.
evp	lower	verb	2	B2	to reduce the amount or level of something	Interest rates have been lowered again.	This should be done by lowering taxes and preparing other incentives for potential investors.
evp	loyal	adjective	1	B2	always liking and supporting someone or something, sometimes when other people do not	Jack has been a loyal employee in this company for almost 50 years.	One of the most beautiful things i] the world is true and loyal friendship.
evp	loyalty	noun	1	B2	the quality of being loyal	His loyalty was never in question.	What I can say is that pets ar] ideal when they obey and show loyalty to you.
evp	luck	noun	1	A2	good and bad things caused by chance and not by your own actions	It was just by luck that she got the job.	Good luck to you.
evp	luck	noun	2	B2	success	I’ve got a job interview today, so wish me luck.	As you might suppose, I couldn't believe my luck when I found out that I'd won first prize in the competition.
evp	luck	noun	3	C1	to be lucky or to be able to have or do what you want	"Do you have any tuna sandwiches?" "You're in luck - there's one left."	I was in luck, because my friend, who lived in the same area, had his private car and gave me a lift every day.
evp	luck	noun	4	C2	something good that happens to you by chance	He had exactly the part that I needed so that was a stroke of luck.	After a one-hour interview she was asked whether she could start work the very next day. A real stroke of luck.
evp	luckily	adverb	1	B1	in a lucky way	Luckily, I had some money with me.	Luckily, the weather was nice.
evp	lucky	adjective	1	A2	having good things happen to you by chance	"I'm going on vacation." "Lucky you!"	Maybe we will be lucky and have good weather.
evp	lucky	adjective	2	B1	If an object is lucky, some people believe that it gives you luck.	I chose six - it's my lucky number.	I lost my lucky pencil.
evp	lucrative	adjective	1	C2	If something is lucrative, it results in a lot of money.	a lucrative contract/job/offer	It is no secret that many youngsters want a lucrative job, which would allow them to make money hand over fist.
evp	luggage	noun	1	A2	suitcases and other bags that you carry with you when you are traveling	Never leave your luggage unattended.	My hotel is near the airport, so it was easy for me to come here with my luggage.
evp	lumber	noun	1	C2	wood cut into sizes to be used for building	We can buy most of the lumber precut to the lengths we will need.	Soon afterward, he established his own lumber company, and started to import wood items from the United States.
evp	lump	noun	1	C2	a piece of a solid substance with no particular shape	a lump of coal	He bent down to pick it up and saw it was a lump of concrete.
evp	lump	noun	2	C2	to make you feel such strong emotion that you want to cry	It was a very moving speech, and it brought a lump to my throat.	This devastating image brought a lump to John's throat.
evp	lunch	noun	1	A1	a meal that is eaten in the middle of the day	What's for lunch?	We met in Bristol, and we had beer and a light lunch.
evp	lunchtime	noun	1	A2	the time when lunch is eaten	It'll be lunchtime soon.	Please telephone me at home at lunchtime.
evp	lung	noun	1	B2	one of the two organs inside your chest that are used for breathing	lung cancer	People suffering from lung diseases go there to be cured.
evp	lure	verb	1	C2	to persuade someone to go somewhere or do something by offering them something exciting	It seems that he was lured into a trap.	Some of the children are lured to the big cities, in expectation of work.
evp	lure	noun	1	C2	the power to attract people	the lure of fame/power/money	Some have offered the lure of losing weight within a very few days, by the means of miraculously easy techniques.
evp	luxurious	adjective	1	C1	very comfortable and expensive	They have a very luxurious house.	As far as the hotel is concerned, I feel that it wasn't a luxurious one.
evp	luxury	noun	1	B1	great comfort or pleasure from expensive or beautiful things	a luxury cruise	I'm staying in a luxury hotel overlooking the sea.
evp	luxury	noun	2	B2	something which gives you a lot of pleasure but which you cannot often do or have	A day off work is such a luxury.	I think that to have this museum is a luxury for our city and we must visit it]
evp	luxury	noun	3	C1	something expensive which is pleasant to have but is not necessary	luxuries, such as champagne and chocolate	At the time, the majority of consumers had no money to spend on luxuries.
evp	lyrics	noun	1	B2	the words of a song	I've downloaded the lyrics of that song you like.	One of the greatest of these musicians is Caetano Veloso, whose lyrics and melodies touch the hearts and souls of music lovers in Brazil and all around the world.
evp	ma'am	noun	1	B1	a polite way of speaking to a woman	Can I help you, ma’am?	Ma'am, I am sorry to say that I will not be able to attend tomorrow's English class.
evp	machine	noun	1	A2	a piece of equipment with several moving parts which uses power to do a particular type of work	a washing machine	I want to sell the washing machine.
evp	machinery	noun	1	C1	machines, often large machines	industrial/farm machinery	Many pieces of machinery used in the production line do not necessarily have to be functioning the entire time.
evp	mad	adjective	1	A2	angry	Are you still mad at me?	I'm not mad because you missed my party.
evp	mad	adjective	2	B1	to love someone or something	They only met a month ago but he's mad about her.	You know, I hate pink, but my mother is really mad about pink.
evp	mad	adjective	3	B1	mentally ill	I think I must be going mad.	The movie was about a guy that was mad.
evp	mad	adjective	4	B2	a lot	The band practiced like mad before their first concert.	It was raining like mad, so we were wet to the skin.
evp	madam	noun	1	B1	a formal and polite way of speaking to a woman	Can I help you, madam?	[An] old woman came in the shop and quietly put my suitcase near to me and she said "Excuse me, Madam, it's your suitcase. I saw somebody take it.
evp	madam	noun	2	B2	a way of beginning a formal letter to a woman whose name you do not know	Dear Madam, I am writing to inform you...	Dear Sir or Madam, With reference to your newspaper report of 17th July, I am writing to correct some points in this report.
evp	magazine	noun	1	A2	a thin book published every week or month, that has shiny, colorful pages with articles and pictures	She has written articles for several women's magazines.	At the party, Maria, Paula, Marissa and I read magazines, talked about boys and played games.
evp	magic	noun	1	A2	special powers that can make things happen that seem impossible	Do you believe in magic?	I liked very much the book about magic.
evp	magic	noun	2	A2	skillful tricks that are done to entertain people, such as making things appear and disappear and pretending to cut someone in half	He's a comedian who also does magic.	There is a magic show every day, I think you must go there once.
evp	magic	noun	3	B2	a quality that makes something or someone seem special or exciting	No one could fail to enjoy the magic of this wonderful city.	But everyone was thinking of the elections and couldn't feel the "magic" of Christmas Day...
evp	magic	adjective	1	A2	relating to skillful tricks done to entertain people	a magic show	After that a magician showed us a lot of magic tricks.
evp	magic	adjective	2	B1	with special powers that make impossible things happen	The witch put a magic spell on the prince and turned him into a frog.	
evp	magical	adjective	1	B2	special and exciting	It was a magical night.	I think you should go to Cracow - a beautiful, old city with original, historical monuments, works of art and many cafes and jazz clubs with a magical atmosphere.
evp	magical	adjective	2	B2	with special powers that make impossible things happen	magical powers	We cherish the belief in a magical force outside ourselves, which sooner or later will deliver us these dreams.
evp	magnetic	adjective	1	C1	having a thin coat of material that is able to electrically store information	Your account information is on the magnetic strip on the back of your debit card.	75% of the staff suggested that the keys be changed for magnetic keys, that don't need to be left in reception when the client goes out.
evp	magnetic	adjective	2	C1	having a character that attracts people to you	He has a magnetic personality.	Ivan has a magnetic personality, which draws people to him.
evp	magnetic	adjective	3	C2	able to attract and stick to iron or steel objects or cause this to happen	This note pad is magnetic, so you can stick it on your refrigerator.	The glass shutter doors are broken and the door latch is also not working anymore since the magnetic stopper came unstuck during transit.
evp	magnificent	adjective	1	B1	very good or very beautiful	a magnificent view	Next, we went to a forest. [I]n the middle was a lake and the sight was magnificent.
evp	magnificently	adverb	1	C1	extremely well	I thought she coped magnificently.	This small drawback did not affect either the dance display or the horse show, which were both performed magnificently.
evp	mail	noun	1	A2	letters and packages that are delivered to homes, places of work, etc.	Did the mail come yet? / Was the mail delivered yet?	I check my mail every day and I hoped to have a letter from you sooner than this.
evp	mail	noun	2	A2	the public system by which letters and packages are sent and delivered	You will be sent your test results by mail.	Dear Carol, I've forgotten my palm top at your house, you can send it to me by mail.
evp	mail	noun	3	A2	e-mail	I just want to check my mail before I turn off the computer.	When I came back home from school, I immediately checked my hotmail account to see if any mail from my friend had arrived.
evp	mail	verb	1	B1	to send a letter or package by mail	Did you remember to mail me that letter  / to mail that letter to me?	I already asked a friend of mine to pass me the notes and to mail me the homework.
evp	main	adjective	1	B1	most important or largest	The main airport is 15 miles from the capital.	However, the main reason, I must admit, was that I wanted to meet new people, make new friends and the college is the best place for meeting interesting people.
evp	main	adjective	2	B2	the most important fact in a situation	You're happy and that's the main thing.	The main thing is to be happy and to love yourself.
evp	main course	noun	1	A2	the largest or most important part of a meal	I had salmon for my main course.	The main course could be fish or meat with vegetables.
evp	mainly	adverb	1	B1	mostly or to a large degree	The waitresses are mainly French.	I often wear jeans, mainly blue jeans.
evp	mainstream	adjective	1	C2	considered normal, and having or using ideas, beliefs, etc. which are accepted by most people	This is the director's first mainstream Hollywood film.	The media source and its credibility play a major role in determining the objectivity and realistic portrayal although there have been cases where even mainstream publications have participated in manipulative alterations.
evp	maintain	verb	1	B2	to make a situation or activity continue in the same way	The army has been brought in to maintain order in the region.	If this not is possible he should work less hard in order to maintain his health[.]
evp	maintain	verb	2	B2	to keep a road, machine, building, etc. in good condition	A large house costs a lot to maintain.	Due to my education and my experience in maintaining machines, I am sure that I can do a good job in your club.
evp	maintain	verb	3	C2	to say that you are certain something is true	She maintains that she’s being criticized simply for telling the truth.	Moreover, sceptics maintain that the lack of facilities and jobs leads to the countryside being "abandoned."
evp	maintenance	noun	1	B2	the work needed to keep a road, building, machine, etc. in good condition	car maintenance classes	Many people can't afford to have a car as maintenance is very expensive.
evp	major	adjective	1	B2	more important, bigger or more serious than others of the same type	This is a major problem for people in this region.	Some major changes are really necessary.
evp	major	noun	1	B2	the most important subject that a college or university student studies, or a student studying that subject	What's your major?	
evp	major	verb	1	B2	to study something as your main subject in college or a university	She majored in earth sciences at Arizona State.	I have majored in English for four years.
evp	majority	noun	1	B2	more than half of a group of people or things	The majority of our employees have university degrees.	However the majority of the teachers found that buying movies was not a good idea.
evp	make	verb	1	A1	to produce or create something	Shall I make some coffee?	You can make a quick snack, for example a sandwich.
evp	make	verb	2	A2	to be produced from a substance or material	Butter is made from milk.	It is made of gold.
evp	make	verb	3	A2	to perform an action	I must make a telephone call.	I think I made a good choice.
evp	make	verb	4	A2	to take action so that you are certain that something happens	I'll just make sure I've turned the oven off.	So please make sure that you wear old clothes.
evp	make	verb	5	B1	to cause something to happen or cause a particular state	What made you change your mind?	It's so funny and it makes me laugh.
evp	make	verb	6	B1	to force someone or something to do something	I made him clean his room.	I could make him wait a little.
evp	make	verb	7	B1	to make a decision	I haven't made up my mind whether to apply for the job yet.	The place was so dirty that I made up my mind to change it by buying something useful.
evp	make	verb	8	B1	to manage to arrive at a place	I'm afraid I can't make the meeting this afternoon.	Respected Madam, I'm sorry that I can't make it to the English class tomorrow as I have a high temperature.
evp	make	verb	9	B1	to show with your face that you do not like someone or something	Joe made a face when he saw what was for lunch.	Making a face, I slapped my forehead.
evp	make	verb	10	B1	to begin to know and like someone	He finds it difficult to make friends.	Although I didn't know anyone in this club, I immediately made friends with Maria and Rosaria.
evp	make	verb	11	B2	to earn	She makes around  $80,000 a year as a doctor.	The truth is that our grandparents worked very hard to make a living.
evp	make	verb	12	B2	to put sheets and covers on a bed or to make the sheets and covers on a bed neat	Did you make the bed?	Driving through the mountains we didn't reach the cabin until late at night. So we just made the beds and went off to sleep.
evp	make	verb	13	B2	to take full advantage of something because it may not last long	We should make the most of this good weather.	Remember, always try to make the most of your life.
evp	make	verb	14	B2	to try to be positive about a situation you do not like but cannot change	Our hotel room is pretty small, but we'll just have to make the best of it.	Unfortunately I don't have very much spare time so we will have to arrange it carefully in order to make the best of your time in London.
evp	make	verb	15	B2	to improve a situation (a lot)	Exercise can make a big difference to your health.	It wouldn't make a big difference in my life, but it would be good.
evp	make	verb	16	B2	to make a situation more difficult, unpleasant, etc.	To make matters worse, our car broke down!	To make matters worse, the newspaper said they only played for thirty-five minutes.
evp	make	verb	17	B2	to make someone look stupid intentionally	She was always trying to make a fool out of me in front of my friends.	He thought I had tried to make a fool of him but no, I was really desperate to get him as my boyfriend.
evp	make	verb	18	B2	to behave in a silly or embarrassing way	I got very excited and made a fool of myself.	I had to leave that shop in full embarrassment and I also made a fool of myself.
evp	make	verb	19	B2	to make a joke about someone or something in an unkind way	The other children at school used to make fun of his hair.	I didn't want to tell other people because I didn't want them to make fun of me.
evp	make	verb	20	B2	to have a meaning or reason that you can understand	He's written me this note but it doesn't make any sense.	All these words might not make sense but this is the story of how we felt.
evp	make	verb	21	B2	to be a good thing to do	It makes sense to buy now while prices are low.	Therefore it makes sense to use the innovations.
evp	make	verb	22	C1	to leave enough time to do something although you are busy	You have to make time to do your homework.	I'm terribly sorry for not being able to make time to pick you up when you arrive.
evp	make	verb	23	C1	to have the necessary qualities to become something	He would make a really good dad.	That is why I think I would make a good judge.
evp	make	verb	24	C1	to be successful	Very few actors actually make it.	People who belong to this social group are much more determined to "make it" in life.
evp	make	verb	25	C1	to have just enough money to pay for the things that you need	I had to get a second job just to make ends meet.	Most students support themselves and barely make ends meet every month.
evp	make	verb	26	C1	to behave in a relaxed way in a place, as if it was your own home	Take off your coat and make yourself at home.	Please relax and make yourself at home and help yourself.
evp	make	verb	27	C1	to write down information about something	Let me make a note of your phone number.	After talking to other members, I have made a note of the main problems they considered the most urgent to be solved.
evp	make	verb	28	C1	to say something to someone in a way that they understand	I had a little difficulty making myself understood.	(Find enclosed a paper slip on which I have written a destination, number of tickets, etc., in the German language - use it just in case you can't make yourselves understood.)
evp	make	verb	29	C1	to mention only the final result or point of something without going into other details	To make a long story short, he never played baseball again.	To make a long story short, my mother turned out to be an understanding person.
evp	make	verb	30	C2	to use something that is less good than you would like	If we can't get a bigger room we'll have to make do with this.	Very calmly, he said "I am not going to put up with this. You might say that I am being too emotional, overreacting, whatever. But I will not come back until my piano has been returned. And let me make very clear that I will not make do with another instrument."
evp	make	verb	31	C2	to talk or behave as if you do not think a problem is serious	I just laughed and tried to make light of it.	They project an optimistic image and make light of the troubles in life.
evp	make	verb	32	C2	to remember that someone has a disadvantage which is not their fault when you are judging their behavior or work	They made allowances for the fact that he was ill.	I would say Mr. Stevens is a victim of his sense of duty, which makes him think of marriage as a traitor's act, but I don't know to what extent we should make allowances for his strong convictions.
evp	make	verb	33	C2	If something makes your blood run cold, it frightens you very much.	I heard a tapping on the window which made my blood run cold.	This thought scared me and made my blood run cold.
evp	make	verb	34	C2	to make you extremely angry	The way they have treated those people makes my blood boil.	Paul said something repulsive, with a cold light in his eyes, and it made her blood boil.
evp	make	verb	35	C2	to make someone very happy	Seeing those little kids having so much fun just made my day.	Thank you for returning my lost diary; you have made my day!
evp	make	verb	36	C2	to talk or behave as if you do not think a problem is serious	I just laughed and tried to make light of it.	They project an optimistic image and make light of the troubles in life.
evp	make	verb	37	C2	to become famous or respected by a lot of people	He's been trying to make a name for himself in the music business.	Secondly, only a few sportsmen and sportswomen manage to make a name for themselves and get to the top.
evp	make	verb	38	C2	to have a strong effect on other people	The new police chief has really made his presence felt.	Before long a local bicycle gang was formed which would ride all over the village, through fields and gardens, making our presence felt.
evp	make	verb	39	C2	to suddenly run fast in order to escape from somewhere	When he saw the open door, he made a run for it.	Anna and Tom decided to make a run for it.
evp	make	verb	40	C2	to cause problems by asking difficult questions or criticizing	He has earned a reputation for making waves during political campaigns.	If we don't want to regret anything, it is time we started to make waves by scrutinizing our history.
evp	make	verb	41	C2	to be successful and make progress in your work	He managed to make his way in the film industry.	For each one of the famous sportsmen we recognize on television or in the newspapers, there are thousands of hopeful youngsters trying to make their way to the top.
evp	make	verb	42	C2	to be replaced by someone or something	They knocked down the old houses to make way for a new hotel.	Local markets are broken down to make way for shopping malls, which sell items for the brand conscious population of today.
evp	make	verb	43	C2	to understand something that is difficult to understand	I'm trying to make sense of this document.	In fact, it's during his journey that Stevens begins to make sense of his life, of all the years he spent as a butler, as the "perfect butler" who had to be loyal, silent and discreet.
evp	make	verb	44	C2	to get a lot of public attention	The movie made quite a splash in the US.	Moreover, it is no use splashing your money around on expensive gifts because this behavior shows that you are not happy but your purpose is to make a splash.
evp	make	verb	45	B2	to move toward a place	He got up and made for the exit.	We might take a rest at the Frene Hotel and after having visited the Butterfly Farm, we will make for the Lakeside Inn.
evp	make	verb	46	B2	to change something into something else	They've made the spare room into an office.	Sometimes people don't bother to read a book because it has been made into a film or a series.
evp	make	verb	47	C2	If you ask someone what they make of someone or something, you want to know their opinion about that person or thing.	What do you make of this letter?	At first we did not know what to make of it and we were all dumbfounded; but later we realized that it was none other than the Icelandic lady out there on our lawn.
evp	make	verb	48	B2	to be able to see, hear or understand something or someone but with difficulty	We could just make out a building through the trees.	Somebody was standing outside, but she couldn't make out who it could be.
evp	make	verb	49	B2	to say or write something that is not true	I made up an excuse about having to look after the kids.	Donald made up the best story.
evp	make	verb	50	B2	to reduce the bad effect of something, or make something bad become something good	No amount of money can make up for the death of a child.	I really want to make up for the broken vase, but I am not sure if you will like my choice.
evp	maker	noun	1	B2	the person or company that makes a product	They're the biggest maker of fast-food products in the country.	NISSAN is a famous Japanese car maker as you know.
evp	makeup	noun	1	A2	colored substances used on your face to improve or change your appearance	She wears a lot of makeup.	I like the bag because is very big. I can put all my makeup in.
evp	male	adjective	1	B1	belonging to or relating to the sex that cannot have babies	a male colleague	I was there when I heard a male voice calling me.
evp	male	noun	1	B2	a male person or animal	In 1987, 27 percent of adult males smoked.	I am a 30-year old Swedish male with a diploma in gardening.
evp	malicious	adjective	1	C2	intended to harm or upset someone	malicious gossip	If malicious teasing is tolerated, the whole school will be affected in a negative way and nobody will feel safe and self-confident.
evp	mall	noun	1	B1	a large, usually covered, shopping area where cars are not allowed	There are plans to build a new mall in the middle of town.	You can go shopping too because there is a nice shopping mall in Punta del Este.
evp	mammal	noun	1	C1	an animal that feeds its babies on milk from its body	Dolphins and other sea mammals are being harmed by waste in the oceans.	To admire some of the sea mammals, like the dolphins and the whales, the best possible spot would be a small, isolated Aegean isle.
evp	man	noun	1	A1	an adult male human being	a young/tall man	He's a very good man.
evp	man	noun	2	B2	used to refer to both men and women	Man is still more intelligent than the cleverest robot.	Man must create the conditions so that animals can live, eat and procreate without strain.
evp	manage	verb	1	B1	to do something or deal with something successfully	Did you manage to get any bread?	I even phoned the bus company but I didn't manage to get the CDs back.
evp	manage	verb	2	B1	to be in control of an office, store, team, etc.	She used to manage the bookstore on King Street.	The English club is a student club which is managed by students aged from 13 to 20 who would like to improve their English.
evp	manage	verb	3	C1	to use or organize your time or money	He's no good at managing his money.	London is the third most expensive city in the world after Tok[yo] and N.Y., so you will have to manage your money quite carefully.
evp	management	noun	1	B2	the control and organization of something	The company has suffered from several years of bad management.	I also know the basic rules of good management.
evp	manager	noun	1	A2	someone in control of an office, shop, team, etc.	a bank manager	I will be the manager of the group.
evp	mango	noun	1	A2	a tropical fruit that has a green skin and is orange inside	We had ice cream with slices of mango.	So anyway I'm here at the beach sunbathing, having a lovely time under the mango trees.
evp	mankind	noun	1	B2	all people, considered as a group	the history of mankind	Since the beginning of human civilization, mankind has never ceased to be mesmerized by folklore and stories of princes and princesses.
evp	manner	noun	1	B2	the way something happens or something is done	She stared at me in an accusing manner.	I don't know if you will follow my advice, but in whichever manner you spend the money, I hope you are glad.
evp	manner	noun	2	B2	polite ways of behaving with other people	It's bad manners to eat with your mouth open.	Professional waiters are polite, tolerant and show good manners.
evp	manner	noun	3	B2	the way in which a person talks and behaves with other people	an aggressive/friendly/rude manner	I stared at him in anger, and the poor man, afraid of my rude manner, went out of the cafe.
evp	mansion	noun	1	C1	a very large expensive house	The street is lined with enormous mansions where the rich and famous live.	Do you want to live in a grand mansion, an expensive flat or even a castle?
evp	manual	adjective	1	B2	involving physical work rather than mental work	unskilled manual labor	But, on the other hand, I sometimes think that this technology is the cause of the end of certain activities such as farming, or manual work.
evp	manual	adjective	2	B2	done or operated with the hands	the manual sorting of letters	It has both manual and automatic functions so it has a lot of possibilities.
evp	manual	noun	1	B2	a book that tells you how to use something or do something	You can download the manual for the computer if you need to.	Now I need to read some manuals at work.
evp	manufacture	verb	1	B2	to produce goods in large numbers, usually in a factory using machines	He works for a company that manufactures car parts.	In the past I have worked in a company which manufactures computer games.
evp	manufacturer	noun	1	B2	a company that produces goods in large numbers	a shoe manufacturer	[A]ir pollution could be reduced if car manufacturers and companies made effective filters for car exhausts and factory chimneys.
evp	manufacturing	noun	1	B2	the business of producing goods in large numbers	car/food manufacturing	I am a translator for a manufacturing company.
evp	map	noun	1	A2	a picture that shows where countries, towns, roads, rivers, etc. are	a map of the world	You can get a map of the city in the train station.
evp	marathon	noun	1	B2	a running race of slightly over 26 miles (42.195 kilometres)	the London/New York marathon	How many hours of training per week are necessary if I want to run the marathon next year?
evp	March	noun	1	A1	the third month of the year, after February and before April	the 26th of March/March 26th	In March my country is very beautiful because spring is coming and the cold is over.
evp	march	noun	1	C1	an organized walk by a group to show that they disagree with something	She's going on a march on Saturday in protest over the closure of the hospital.	There were protest marches and doctors, nurses, and the population forced the government to find a solution to the problem.
evp	march	verb	1	C1	to walk with other people in a public place as part of an organized event to show that you disagree with something	Around twenty thousand people marched through the city today to protest against the proposed new law.	This was a time of rupture, a scream for freedom, for love, and for peace. Young boys and girls marched against war and at the same time killed themselves with drugs.
evp	march	verb	2	C1	to walk with regular steps, often with other people walking the same way	The band marched through the downtown streets.	Even when the Romans marched against Greece, the Greek people could[n't] unite against their new and powerful enemy and that's why they were conquered.
evp	march	verb	3	C2	to walk somewhere fast and with purpose	She marched into my office demanding to know why I hadn't written my report.	She marched into the shop, got rid of the old lady and pestered the poor man until he agreed to give her the painting for £2982.
evp	margin	noun	1	C2	the difference between two amounts of time, money, etc.	He was reelected by a wide margin.	We chose the second one, and, incredible as it may seem, we managed to win by a rather comfortable margin.
evp	margin	noun	2	C2	empty space around the edges of a page of print or writing	If I have any comments to make, I'll write them in the margin.	That night, while he was going back to his native country, he analyzed the information written in the margins of the Lost Dairy.
evp	margin	noun	3	C2	the amount by which a calculation can be wrong but still give a good result	a margin of error of 5 percent	It might be true that what is considered to be healthy or unhealthy changes over time, however, as science progresses the margin of error becomes smaller, and experts are then able to have a more accurate and precise say on all matters, including health.
evp	margin	noun	4	C2	the amount of profit that is made by a business after costs have been subtracted	Higher fuel prices have reduced our margins.	The first toys, he sold with a small profit margin.
evp	marginal	adjective	1	C2	small and not important	a marginal difference/effect/improvement	[Over-grazing had the biggest impact in America, while deforestation caused only a marginal effect.
evp	mark	noun	1	A2	a number or letter that is written on a piece of work, saying how good the work is	What mark did you get in the biology exam?	My father gave it to me because I had good marks at school last year.
evp	mark	noun	2	B2	a small area on the surface of something which is damaged, dirty or different in some way	There were dirty marks on her pants where she had wiped her hands.	But one day, when I was about ten years old, my father had hurt me on the face and I had a blue mark on my cheek.
evp	mark	noun	3	C1	a symbol that is used for giving information	I've put a mark on the map where I think we should go for a picnic.	As you walk through the valley, always following the red marks on the path, you will run into many interesting views: from climbers climbing the walls of the valley to waterfalls coming from the top of it.
evp	mark	noun	4	C2	a sign or proof that something exists	a mark of genius	To succeed in a task that one has envisioned is a mark of success.
evp	mark	noun	5	C2	to do something that makes you successful or makes people notice you	He really made his mark on the company.	It teaches you that you don't have to be an Arnold Schwarzenegger to fight for your friends and really make your mark.
evp	mark	verb	1	B2	to check a piece of work or an exam, showing mistakes and giving a letter or number to say how good it is	I was up half the night marking exam papers.	Computers even sell tickets at stations, mark exam papers, and help us to talk with people all over the world via the Internet.
evp	mark	verb	2	B2	to put a line, symbol, letter, etc., on something as a label or to show something	I've marked my street on the map for you.	On the map we have marked a black dot on the place where you will find the hotel.
evp	mark	verb	3	C2	to put a spot, color, ink, dirt, etc., on a small area of something	Sale items are marked with red on the tags.	See all paragraphs marked in green.
evp	mark	verb	4	C2	to represent or show a characteristic of a person or thing or feeling	The signing of the treaty marked a major milestone on the road to European union.	These books, most of which are very scientific, marked the beginning of a new era of enlightenment and technology.
evp	market	noun	1	A2	a place where people go to buy or sell things, often outside	a fish/flower market	Juan, My new house is in Balmoral Street, near the market.
evp	market	noun	2	C1	all the people who want to buy a particular product, or the area where they live	Is there a market for
second-hand jewelry?	We had been researching the market for a year.
evp	market	noun	3	C1	the number of people in a place who are available and willing to work	The strong economy will create growth in the labor market.	The labor market in Russia is greatly influenced by the political situation.
evp	market	noun	4	C2	the business of buying and selling a particular product or service	the insurance/housing market	Usually the enumeration of problems includes facts such as the difficulties that are caused in countries which run state-administered pension schemes, distortions in the age structure of developed countries, problems with the housing market, and so on.
evp	marketing	noun	1	B2	work that involves encouraging people to buy a product or service	a career in marketing/sales and marketing	I am studying marketing now so I will be available at the end of April.
evp	marriage	noun	1	B1	the legal relationship of a man and a woman being a husband and a wife, or the ceremony where people become a husband and a wife	They had a long and happy marriage.	After the marriage they go to a restaurant and eat something.
evp	marry	verb	1	B1	to begin a legal relationship with someone as their husband or wife	Will you marry me?	Before we left the airport, John whispered in my ear "I'm going to marry her".
evp	martial art	noun	1	B2	one of the traditional Japanese or Chinese skills of fighting, done as sports in many countries, for example karate or kung fu	Kuk Sool Won is a martial art from Korea.	I've been doing different martial arts since I moved to Balingen in 1990.
evp	marvelous	adjective	1	B1	extremely good	I thought it was a marvelous movie.	It was a beautiful and marvelous day.
evp	masculine	adjective	1	C1	having qualities that are typical of men	a masculine appearance/voice	In Mexico, husbands traditionally avoid doing housework. They feel that it is a woman's exclusive task. If they wash the dishes they are not masculine any more.
evp	mask	noun	1	B2	a covering for the face which protects, hides or decorates the person wearing it	a gas mask	Suddenly five men with masks jumped from nowhere into the bank and started to threaten us with their guns.
evp	massacre	noun	1	C2	the killing of a lot of people	He ordered the massacre of over 2,000 women and children.	It was mostly used for military purposes, thus provoking huge disasters and massacres.
evp	massive	adjective	1	B2	very large in size, amount or number	They've got a massive house.	Sea pollution can be reduced if people take more care with oil tankers, to reduce massive oil spills.
evp	master	noun	1	B2	a man who is in charge of a servant or a dog	With careful training, a dog will obey its master completely.	We must remember that we are masters of the car not the servants of the car.
evp	master	noun	2	C1	a higher university title of achievement	to study for a Master's degree	It is the second year since I got my master's.
evp	master	noun	3	C2	a person who does something with a lot of skill	This painting is clearly the work of a master.	Beckman is a master in telling her stories through the eyes of a child.
evp	masterpiece	noun	1	C2	a painting, book, or movie that is generally considered to be of excellent quality	"Mona Lisa" is widely regarded as Leonardo da Vinci's masterpiece.	My choice was Chinua Achebe's masterpiece "Things Fall Apart."
evp	mat	noun	1	C1	a piece of thick material that you put on the floor, often in order to protect it	There's a mat by the door for you to wipe your feet on.	Last but not least, many Japanese style hotels and restaurants now have square holes in tatami (straw mat) rooms so that foreign visitors can comfortably stretch their legs under the low table without having to be seated on folded legs like Zen monks!
evp	match	noun	1	A2	a sports competition in which two people or teams compete against each other	a tennis match	I would like to play a tennis match at your house, and go out tonight too.
evp	match	noun	2	B2	a thin, wooden stick which produces a flame when you rub one end of it against a rough surface	a box of matches	I lit a match and I went to the kitchen to get a candle, but there weren't any.
evp	match	noun	3	C2	something which is similar to or combines well with something else	The curtains look great - they're a perfect match for the sofa.	Marine science would be a perfect match for people interested in natural sciences.
evp	match	noun	4	C2	to not be as good as someone or something else	Gibson ran well but was no match for the young Italian.	This exhibition was e]speciall striking because almost all the prints were from the very first series of vintage prints, in addition to being rare and also highly valued by collectors, even though their prices are no match for the Picasso.
evp	match	noun	5	C2	to light a match in order to produce fire	I struck a match and lit the candle.	Their instant reaction was to park the car, put their raincoats on, get out and strike a few useless matches: they were their last light resource apart from the lightning in the sky and the weak head]lights
evp	match	verb	1	B1	If two things match, they are the same color or type.	I can't find anything to match my green shirt.	They match a T-shirt that I bought last week.
evp	match	verb	2	B1	to choose someone or something that is suitable for a particular person, activity or purpose	In the first exercise you have to match each capital city to its country.	
evp	match	verb	3	C1	to be as good as someone or something else	It would be difficult to match the service this airline gives to its customers.	In all these ways that your establishment failed to match the claims made for it in your publicity, we feel entitled to a full refund and I therefore urge you to improve the facilities of your museum or withdraw the advertisement to avoid further complaints.
evp	material	noun	1	B1	cloth for making clothes, curtains, etc.	Her dress was made of a soft, silky material.	I like buying designer clothes because they're made of good material.
evp	material	noun	2	B1	documents, recorded information, etc. that are used for a particular activity	publicity material	During the lesson we use a lot of useful and helpful material: tapes, video, and lots of different books.
evp	material	noun	3	B2	a physical substance that has a particular quality or is used for a particular purpose	building materials, such as stone	They wear plastic in their hair and clothes that are made from recycled materials.
evp	material	noun	4	C1	the facts or ideas in a piece of writing	I'm collecting material for an article that I'm writing.	They are mainly interested in gathering material and data.
evp	materialism	noun	1	C2	the belief that having money and possessions is the most important thing in life	She was saddened by the materialism of our society.	We consume, not for the benefit of our social status, but to satisfy our need for material goods. This phenomenon, called materialism, characterizes our society.
evp	materialist	noun	1	C2	a person who thinks that having money and possessions is the most important thing in life	We hope our children will not be materialists.	Firstly, I would say that I am not a materialist but some things have a great value in my eyes and pictures are one of those things.
evp	materialist	adjective	1	C2	believing that having money and possessions is the most important thing in life	We live in a materialist society.	To be able to understand their labor we must separate ourselves from the materialist world we are living in.
evp	materialistic	adjective	1	C2	believing that having money and possessions is the most important thing in life	a materialistic society	When parents put instead of their presence, presents, aren't we replacing love with materialism, where the children in turn become materialistic rather than loving?
evp	math	noun	1	A2	the study of numbers, shapes and space using reason and usually a special system of symbols and rules for organizing them	Math is my favorite subject!	Dear Robert, I think I left my math book in your house last night.
evp	mathematical	adjective	1	B2	relating to mathematics	a mathematical formula	Furthermore, he studied the human body and invented mathematical formulas to describe his findings.
evp	mature	adjective	1	B2	Mature people behave like adults in a way that shows they are well developed emotionally.	She seems very mature for thirteen.	Every time I thought of it before entering college, I expected to find intelligent, kind, and mature people, though of course, some rude, mean and stupid people as well.
evp	maximize	verb	1	C2	to increase something as much as you can	to maximize profits	I can assure you that I would make every possible effort to maximize the outcome of this project.
evp	maximum	adjective	1	B1	The maximum amount of something is the largest amount that is allowed or possible.	maximum speed/effort/temperature	[F]rom now on, my house will have maximum security (tanks, soldiers, bombs) so no one can kidnap my family again.
evp	maximum	noun	1	B1	the largest amount allowed or possible	The temperature will reach a maximum of 60°F today.	So I watch 1 hour of television a day, maximum.
evp	May	noun	1	A1	the fifth month of the year, after April and before June	the 30th of May/May 30(th)	[The] water temperature is 18°C to 26°C all summer (May to end of Sept).
evp	maybe	adverb	1	A2	possibly	Maybe we're too early.	Maybe I forgot it in your room.
evp	maybe	adverb	2	A2	used to politely suggest something	Maybe Ted would like to go.	Maybe we could visit that park you told me about or play at your house.
evp	mayor	noun	1	B2	the person who is elected to govern a city or town	the mayor of Boston	As I am sure you know, my name is Jane Brown, and I am the mayor's secretary.
evp	meal	noun	1	A1	an occasion when food is eaten, or the food which is eaten on such an occasion	make/prepare/cook a meal	I hope we have a great meal and a lot of fun.
evp	mean	verb	1	A2	to have a particular meaning	What does "gather" mean?	Because, in my opinion, blue means freedom.
evp	mean	verb	2	A2	something that you say in order to correct yourself	We went there in May - I mean June.	If you have time - I mean if you are free.
evp	mean	verb	3	B1	to intend to express a fact or opinion	I didn't mean that as a criticism.	Now I know what you mean when you say this island is wonderful.
evp	mean	verb	4	B1	to have an important emotional effect on someone	It wasn't a valuable picture but it meant a lot to me.	It's my grandfather's birthday and he means a lot to me.
evp	mean	verb	5	B1	to intend	I think she meant 8 o’clock, although she said 7 o’clock.	But I didn't mean to scare you.
evp	mean	verb	6	B1	to have been wanting and planning to do something	I've been meaning to call you for weeks.	Dear Claude, I have been meaning to write for ages!
evp	mean	verb	7	B1	to have or need a particular result	Lower costs mean lower prices.	This doesn't mean that you won't be able to enjoy the countryside, in fact most of these cities are surrounded by nature, so you'll have wonderful views.
evp	mean	verb	8	C1	to be made or created for someone or something	These toys are really meant for babies.	Cities are meant for human activities and not for heavy traffic.
evp	mean	verb	9	C2	to intend to be helpful or kind but cause problems instead	He means well, but he keeps trying to help with things he doesn't really understand.	Although these fans might mean well, in many cases they do not appear to realize that their "heroes" perhaps would like to be left alone.
evp	mean	adjective	1	B2	unkind or unpleasant	Stop being so mean to me!	On the other hand people, when driving a car, can be very mean and wicked, and they sure don't have a bit of respect for the next man.
evp	mean	adjective	2	C2	In math, a mean number is the average number you get by adding a group of numbers together and then dividing the result by how many numbers are in the group	The mean temperature this month was warmer than usual for January.	Better living conditions and significant advances in medicine have greatly contributed to an increase in the mean age of death and a decrease in deaths at birth.
evp	mean	adjective	3	C2	used when you want to emphasize that an act or achievement is very difficult	Learning to ski at 60 is no mean feat!	There was an interesting discussion about whether it was harder or easier for them to enter the world of cinema, given their famous names. Both said that it was no mean feat because people were more demanding as to their abilities.
evp	meaning	noun	1	B1	The meaning of words, signs, or actions is what they express or represent.	The word "squash" has several meanings.	If I didn't understand the meaning of a word, she told me and gave me a dictionary to look up the words.
evp	meaning	noun	2	B2	purpose or emotional importance	She felt that her life had no meaning.	We can give meaning to our lives, with everyday little things.
evp	meaningful	adjective	1	B2	useful, serious, or important	a meaningful discussion	First of all, I think this camp could be very meaningful for children, to be close to nature and to understand Japan.
evp	meaningful	adjective	2	B2	having a clear meaning which people can understand	The information needs to be presented in a meaningful way.	The music is really amazing and the lyrics are so meaningful.
evp	means	noun	1	B2	a method or way of doing something	They had no means of communication.	I think if the government improves the public means of transportation, more and more people will use them.
evp	means	noun	2	C1	not in any way	I'm not an expert by any means.	For one thing, the fight against air pollution is by no means an easy mission.
evp	means	noun	3	C1	using, or with this method	Students are selected for scholarships by means of an open, national competition.	Another plus of the Voiceover CD is the availability of teachers, who can be easily reached by means of a telephone, but this kind of service is expensive.
evp	means	noun	4	C2	something that you say when you are agreeing to let someone do something	I have a copy of the report on my desk. By all means have a look at it.	The kitchen utensils stay next to the sink. You can make use of them by all means.
evp	means	noun	5	C2	something that you do because it will help you to achieve something else	I didn't particularly like the job - it was just a means to an end.	Major international sports competitions can either be understood as a means to an end or an end in their own right.
evp	means	noun	6	C2	money	We don't have the means to buy the house.	Most of the people don't have the means to travel, too.
evp	meanwhile	adverb	1	B1	in the time between two things happening, or while something else is happening	Carl's starting college in September. Meanwhile, he's traveling around Europe.	Meanwhile, if you agree, I can do some English exercises to cover the class that I'm going to miss.
evp	measure	verb	1	B2	to discover the exact size or amount of something, or to be of a particular size	"Will the table fit in here?" "I don't know - let's measure it."	I measured how long they played for] because I was one of the group's fans.
evp	measure	verb	2	C1	to be a certain size	a whale measuring around 60 feet in length.	But there is still one major problem: Bielefeld is the main big city in a region measuring about 50 km in diameter.
evp	measure	verb	3	C2	to judge the quality, effect, importance, or value of something	We will soon be able to measure the results of these policies.	The parameters for measuring success would be vastly different depending on which walk of life is being described, so in the following, the definition of success has been narrowed down to a specific domain: the international computer industry.
evp	measure	noun	1	B2	a way of achieving something or dealing with a situation	These measures were designed to improve car safety.	There are a lot of measures that we have taken in the last three years.
evp	measure	noun	2	C2	a way of judging something	Ticket sales are not necessarily a measure of the show's popularity.	So, these two experiences from my childhood taught me a lot of real truth about life and since that time they have been serving me as a measure of my affection or attachment, sorrow or disappointment.
evp	measure	noun	3	C2	amount or degree	Heavy drapes give the room some measure of warmth on cold nights.	The important thing is to have the right measure of material richness so as not to let the negative aspects of it change us and to help us to achieve spiritual richness.
evp	measurement	noun	1	B2	the exact size, shape, degree or strength of something which you discover by measuring it	The measurements of both rooms were identical.	We sat day and night to document the results of our measurements of polluted ground all over Sweden.
evp	measurement	noun	2	C2	the process of measuring something, or a way of measuring something	The test is based on the measurement of blood sugar.	The measurement of a child by academic achievement at school is in my opinion very important as the future of a society or even more of a country depends on the high shared knowledge of the people.
evp	meat	noun	1	A1	muscles and other soft parts of animals, used as food	I don't eat meat.	I don't like meat and fish.
evp	mechanic	noun	1	A2	someone whose job is repairing the engines of vehicles and other machines	a car/garage/motor mechanic	I worked as a mechanic in my country.
evp	mechanical	adjective	1	B2	relating to or operated by machines	a mechanical device	First of all, the car had a mechanical defect and I needed to stay almost five hours in an old and dirty garage, waiting for the car to be fixed.
evp	mechanical	adjective	2	C2	If you do something in a mechanical way, you do it without thinking about it.	a mechanical performance	We end up doing our things in such a mechanical way that the actual spirit of doing dies in us.
evp	mechanism	noun	1	C1	a part of a piece of equipment that does a particular job	The clock's winding mechanism was broken.	Most chairs' adjusting mechanisms failed to work properly and they are not comfortable to sit on.
evp	mechanism	noun	2	C1	a system for achieving something, or the way that a system works	We need a mechanism for resolving this sort of dispute.	The definition of market here not only means a traditional marketplace for goods exchange and barter, but it extends further to a supply-sell mechanism which dominates the normal lives of all in]habitants
evp	medal	noun	1	B2	a metal disk given as a prize in a competition or given to someone who has been very brave	an Olympic medal	[T]hey can also take part in sports competitions and win a medal.
evp	medical	adjective	1	B2	relating to medicine and different ways of curing illness	medical advice	With the help of medical technology doctors can cure more and more patients and do many kinds of operations.
evp	medically	adverb	1	C2	in a way that is connected to medicine or to someone's health	A stay in the hospital was not medically necessary, so the doctor said he could go home.	This does seem wise, as there is no "medically proven" diet or nutrition program that might help everyone to achieve a state of health that they would be completely happy about.
evp	medication	noun	1	C2	medicine that is used to treat an illness	He's on medication to control his depression.	He had to put up with unbelievably painful treatments and was forced to take medication which prevented him from continuing his research.
evp	medicine	noun	1	A2	a substance used to cure an illness or injury	cough medicine	Dear Felix, Thank you inviting me last night. I think I have left my asthma medicine at your house.
evp	medicine	noun	2	B1	treatment for illness or injury, or the study of this	Western/Chinese medicine	She is twenty three years old and she's studying medicine, here in Colombia.
evp	medieval	adjective	1	B2	relating to the period in Europe between about AD 500 and AD 1500	a medieval building/painting/town	On our way around the lake we would have the opportunity of visiting a huge medieval castle which is said to be haunted.
evp	mediocre	adjective	1	C2	not good in quality	The acting was mediocre.	In Hungary, the sports facilities provided are quite mediocre.
evp	mediocrity	noun	1	C2	the state of being mediocre	I was shocked by the mediocrity of these students.	She is a model of mediocrity and shallowness, and in this sense, she epitomizes what authorities expect people to be: just ghosts.
evp	medium	adjective	1	B1	in the middle of a group of different amounts or sizes	a girl of medium height	What size are you? Are you small or medium?
evp	medium	noun	1	C2	a way of communicating or expressing something	the medium of television/radio	As with any other medium of communication or entertainment, nothing is totally good or bad provided it is done in moderation.
evp	meet	verb	1	A1	to see and speak to someone for the first time	They met at work.	At college you can meet new people.
evp	meet	verb	2	A1	to come to the same place as someone else by arrangement or by chance	We met for coffee last Sunday.	I meet with my friends there.
evp	meet	verb	3	A2	a polite way of greeting someone when you meet them for the first time	I'm very pleased to meet you at last!	I will be pleased to meet you.
evp	meet	verb	4	B1	to wait at a place for someone or something to arrive	Will you meet me at the airport ?	Please meet me at London Heathrow at 12:00 am.
evp	meet	verb	5	B1	If a group of people meet, they come to a place in order to do something.	The children's club meets every Thursday afternoon.	The members meet at the club every weekend.
evp	meet	verb	6	C1	to be a big enough amount or of a good enough quality for something	We couldn't find a house that met our needs.	Even though its construction would mean mayhem and chaos for the length of the project, and the fact that it would hold less cars than the alternative, its exclusive location in the middle of the commercial district meets the needs of the growing number of business people working in town.
evp	meet	verb	7	C1	to have just enough money to pay for the things that you need	I had to get a second job just to make ends meet.	Most students support themselves and barely make ends meet every month.
evp	meet	verb	8	C2	to be able to achieve something	He met every goal he set for himself.	She was trying hard to meet our requirements and it really took a lot out of her.
evp	meeting	noun	1	A2	an event where people come together for a reason, usually to discuss something	We're having a meeting on Thursday to discuss the problem.	I'm free to come to a meeting about this tomorrow at six o'clock p.m. See you then]
evp	meeting	noun	2	C1	to arrange for a meeting to happen	The chairman has called an emergency meeting.	We hope you will call a meeting to discuss this matter in detail.
evp	melody	noun	1	C2	the main tune in a piece of music that is often played or sung more than once	He played a beautiful melody.	From his harp, violin, flute, trumpet and many more instruments sprang such a wonderful, enchanting melody that the whole city flourished, thrilled and cheered under its influence.
evp	melon	noun	1	A2	a large, round, sweet fruit with a thick, green or yellow skin and a lot of seeds	a slice of melon	I want to buy melons, tomatoes, apples and pears.
evp	melt	verb	1	B2	If something melts, it changes from a solid into a liquid because of heat and if you melt something, you heat it until it becomes liquid.	The snow usually melts by mid March.	Walking out of the station he saw her! Tall, blond and with eyes that could melt ice.
evp	member	noun	1	A2	a person who belongs to a group or an organization	family/staff members	[The living room provides a huge place for all of my family members.
evp	membership	noun	1	B1	the state of being a member of a group or organization	We applied for membership in the country club.	First, the president welcomed me and gave me my membership card.
evp	membership	noun	2	C1	all the members of a group or organization	We asked the membership to vote on the issue.	First of all, we found that our club's membership is actually falling.
evp	memo	noun	1	C1	a written message sent from one member of an organization to another	Did you see the memo about expenses?	I will send Mr. Pusinshg's e-mail address in a memo if you require it.
evp	memorable	adjective	1	B2	If an occasion is memorable, you will remember it for a long time because it is so good.	a memorable performance	It was a memorable birthday party because they bought me a bass guitar that I couldn't buy because of its high price.
evp	memorial	noun	1	C2	an object, often made of stone, that is built to help people remember an important person or event	the Lincoln Memorial	Every year almost all the inhabitants of our suburb gather at the memorial and celebrate this anniversary.
evp	memory	noun	1	A2	the amount of information that can be stored on a computer or other electronic device	You need 128 megabytes of memory to run this software.	Don't forget it has 4GB of memory.
evp	memory	noun	2	B1	your ability to remember	You have a good memory.	It's about a girl that lives in London and she lost her memory so everybody has to tell her everything about the past.
evp	memory	noun	3	B1	something that you remember from the past	I have very fond memories of that period of my life.	I have so many good memories.
evp	memory	noun	4	C2	the part of your mind that stores what you remember	He recited the poem from memory.	
evp	memory	noun	5	C2	If you do something in memory of a dead person, you do it to show your respect or love for them.	They built a statue in memory of those who died in the fire.	You see, every year our family performs a certain gathering in memory of my brother who was killed in a plane crash in 1991 known as the C130 disaster.
evp	memory	noun	6	C2	an occasion when you remember some of the good things you did in the past	We were just taking a walk down memory lane and recalling our youth.	I want to return there, without the kids, even without my husband, to have a long stroll down memory lane.
evp	mental	adjective	1	B2	relating to the mind, or involving the process of thinking	mental health/illness	His theories have changed our attitude towards mental illness (and mental health) completely.
evp	mentality	noun	1	C1	a person's opinions or way of thinking	They buy everything on credit – they have this play now, pay later mentality.	This is why the changing mentality of men plays an important role.
evp	mentally	adverb	1	B2	connected with or related to the mind	mentally ill	Most people believe that team sports help children to become healthier, both mentally and physically, but there are those who have objections to this statement.
evp	mention	verb	1	B1	to briefly speak or write about something or someone	She didn't mention her daughter.	You mentioned you are coming to visit my country.
evp	mention	verb	2	B2	used to emphasize the importance of something that you are adding to a list	The resort has great hotels and restaurants, not to mention some of the best skiing in the region.	It is crowded everywhere, the shop assistants are stressed, you get to wait for hours to pay for your goods, not to mention the time you must wait to get them wrapped.
evp	mention	noun	1	B2	a brief remark	When I ordered the catalog, there was no mention of any payment.	In the advertisement there's no mention about getting any money back but I think it was such a disappointing evening that you should give it back to me.
evp	menu	noun	1	A2	a list of food and drinks that you can order in a restaurant	a lunch/dinner menu	It's for celebrations because it is a very nice menu.
evp	menu	noun	2	A2	a list that appears on a computer screen of the choices available in a computer program	a pop-up menu	I like it because it has a big screen and easy menu.
evp	merciful	adjective	1	C2	kind and forgiving	Judges are sometimes more merciful than a jury.	He would have seven children, all of them would be merciful and good rulers of rich countries.
evp	merciless	adjective	1	C2	cruel, or showing no kindness	a merciless attack	Sheila, being at least aware how deeply her merciless behavior changed Eve's life, was the only person in the family who was taught a lesson.
evp	mercy	noun	1	C2	kindness that makes you forgive someone, usually someone that you have authority over	The judge showed no mercy.	The doctor showed no mercy and neither would Douglas.
evp	mercy	noun	2	C2	to not be able to protect yourself from something or someone that you cannot control	Farmers are often at the mercy of the weather.	I couldn't believe I'd been careless enough to let them be at the mercy of Joanna's careless, boisterous friends, and I felt very lonely now, looking for them.
evp	mere	adjective	1	B2	used to emphasize that something is not large or important	It cost a mere twenty dollars.	The fight was just a mere coincidence.
evp	merely	adverb	1	B2	used to emphasize that you mean exactly what you are saying and nothing more	I wasn't complaining, I merely said that I was tired.	Of course this is merely a suggestion, and if you have got anything else in mind please don't hesitate to let me know.
evp	merely	adverb	2	C2	used to say something is or does only this or is not large or important when compared to something else	The medicine doesn't make you better, it merely stops the pain.	For a reasonably high entrance fee a visitor can acquire the help of a skilled instructor or merely enjoy skating.
evp	merge	verb	1	C2	If two or more things merge, they combine or join, and if you merge two or more things, you combine or join them.	The two companies merged.	What will happen if the biggest companies go on merging and reducing the number of their employees?
evp	merger	noun	1	C2	when two or more companies or organizations join together	The two companies announced their merger yesterday.	For example, in Korea where conglomerates as well as small companies have announced their bankruptcy or are in the state of liquidation or merger, millions of people are on the verge of being laid off and unemployed.
evp	merit	noun	1	C1	good qualities that deserve praise	His ideas have merit.	Nevertheless, everything has its own merits.
evp	merit	verb	1	C2	to be important enough to receive attention or punishment	Her crimes were serious enough to merit a prison sentence.	One thing which merits serious consideration is the consequences of this invasion in famous private lives.
evp	mess	noun	1	B1	Something or someone that is a mess or is in a mess, looks dirty and disorganized and is not neat.	My hair's such a mess!	Now my room is a mess because I have so much stuff.
evp	mess	noun	2	B2	a situation that is full of problems	She said that her life was a mess.	How on earth did I get into this mess?
evp	mess	verb	1	C1	to waste time playing and doing things with no particular purpose	I was just messing around on the computer.	To add more, on Thursday there were so many children messing around that we couldn't supervise them, as we were only two people.
evp	mess	verb	2	C2	to interfere with or change something that doesn't need to be changed or that you don't want changed	Has someone been messing around with the settings on my computer again?	She can't help messing around with your house-keeping and your cooking.
evp	mess	verb	3	B2	to spoil something, or to do something badly	Don't try to cook lunch without me - you'll only mess it up.	I ignored the price and just paid because I didn't want to mess up the evening.
evp	message	noun	1	A1	a piece of writing or spoken information that one person gives to another	Did you get my message?	Thank you for your message.
evp	message	noun	2	B2	the most important idea in a book, movie or play	The book conveys a complex message.	It has a clear message: if you desire something, you can achieve whatever you want, but only with enormous effort and the danger of losing everything you possess.
evp	message board	noun	1	B1	a place on a website where you can leave messages for other people to read	There's a lot of discussion on the message boards about this issue.	
evp	messy	adjective	1	B1	disorganized or dirty and not neat	a messy kitchen	It's completely messy now, looks like a war in my bedroom, because my bed has broken and I need to buy a new bed quickly.
evp	metal	noun	1	B1	a usually hard, shiny material such as iron, gold, or silver which heat and electricity can travel through	Metal, paper and glass can be recycled.	It was made of metal and wood.
evp	metaphor	noun	1	C2	a way of describing something by comparing it with something else which has some of the same qualities	She used a computer metaphor to explain how the human brain works.	I shall use a metaphor to help me express my idea. An individual can be compared to a ship roaming the oceans.
evp	meter	noun	1	A2	a unit for measuring length, equal to 100 centimeters	Our bedroom is five meters wide.	Walk 100 meters and the first street left is my street.
evp	method	noun	1	B1	a way of doing something, often one that involves a system or plan	What's the best method of/for solving this problem?	I think her teaching method is modern, up to date, and I hope I'll finally improve my English.
evp	meticulous	adjective	1	C2	very careful, and giving great attention to detail	This book is the result of meticulous research.	Moreover, taking photos entails paying attention to detail and although I am not a talent, I am a meticulous person.
evp	microphone	noun	1	B2	a piece of equipment that you speak into to make your voice louder, or to record your voice or other sounds	The interviewer asked her to speak into/use the microphone.	Then we had to plug in all the electric instruments, speakers, lights and microphones.
evp	middle-aged	adjective	1	B1	in the middle of your life before you are old	a middle-aged couple/man/woman	Our teacher is a middle-aged lady with a kind smile and British accent.
evp	the middle class	noun	1	C1	the social group consisting of people who are neither very rich nor very poor	These tax increases will affect the middle class badly.	They also show the efforts parents make to keep the family happy, especially when the middle class in Argentina started to struggle after the economic crisis in 2001.
evp	working-class	adjective	1	C1	belonging to or relating to the working class	Working-class families can't afford these prices.	And young people from working-class families in the suburbs of Paris will make a point of having the latest fashion shoes or trousers.
evp	midnight	noun	1	A2	12 o'clock at night	We didn't get home till midnight.	We stayed until midnight dancing and singing.
evp	midnight	noun	2	C2	to work late into the night	I had to burn the midnight oil to get the essay finished.	My examinations were nearing and I was always burning the midnight oil.
evp	mighty	adjective	1	C2	very powerful or successful	In their next game they're playing the mighty Redskins.	Teotihuacan was the place that saw the rise and fall of the mighty "Nahvatlaca Tribe."
evp	migration	noun	1	C1	when people go to another place to live or find work, or when an animal or bird moves to another place, usually when the season changes	There was a mass migration of poor farmers into the cities.	There is also migration, people from little villages in the interior migrate to the coast.
evp	mild	adjective	1	B1	describes weather that is not very cold or not as cold as usual	We've had a mild winter this year.	As you know, my country has got mild weather.
evp	mild	adjective	2	B2	describes food or a food flavor that is not very strong	a mild chili sauce	Korean food is quite hot and usually served with rice, but Thai food is mild and sometimes a little bit sour.
evp	mild	adjective	3	C1	slight or gentle, not violent, severe or extreme	She can't accept even mild criticism of her work.	Music has either a strong or a mild impact (depending on the person) on our lives.
evp	mile	noun	1	B1	a unit for measuring distance, equal to 1609 meters or 1760 yards	a ten-mile drive	I took her for the day to Krako[w], which is only 10 miles from where I live.
evp	mile	noun	2	C1	a very long distance	We drove for miles along dusty roads.	And then, when it seems as if you have walked for miles, you enter the magnificent Forum Romanum.
evp	mile	noun	3	C2	to be much better or more advanced than someone or something else	Their product designs are miles ahead of the competition.	All sciences are miles ahead comparatively to the past, thanks to technology.
evp	military	adjective	1	B2	relating to the army, navy, or air force	military action/service	During my military experience I worked in the kitchen, so kitchen work is quite normal for me as well.
evp	military	noun	1	C1	a country's army, navy, and air force	The military has opposed any cuts in defense spending.	Until the 1970s, fencing was a sport restricted to the military.
evp	milk	noun	1	A1	a white liquid produced by women and other female animals, such as cows	a glass/carton of milk	I like to drink coffee and tea with milk.
evp	millennium	noun	1	C2	a period of 1000 years	We had a party to celebrate the new millennium.	On the cusp of a new millennium, the importance of holidays in this modernized, stressful world is undeniable.
evp	millimeter	noun	1	B1	a unit of length which is equal to 0.001 meters	The ring has a width of three millimeters.	
evp	million	noun	1	A2	the number 1,000,000	She got eight million dollars for appearing in that film.	It costs about three million VietNam dong (VND).
evp	million	noun	1	B2	very many or a lot	I've seen that movie a million times.	There are millions of things you can do with a computer. (757634; First Certificate in English; Cyprus; B2 VANTAGE; 2000; Greek; Pass
evp	mind	noun	1	B1	someone's memory or their ability to think, feel emotions, and be aware of things	My mind was full of what had happened the night before, and I wasn't concentrating.	At my first class he asked to me sing a song in English, so I sang "Always on my mind!"
evp	mind	noun	2	B1	to change a decision or opinion	I've changed my mind about selling the house.	At first I wasn't so excited as Clara, but after an afternoon there I changed my mind!
evp	mind	noun	3	B1	to make a decision	I haven't made up my mind whether to apply for the job yet.	The place was so dirty that I made up my mind to change it by buying something useful.
evp	mind	noun	4	B2	to remember to consider someone or something that may be useful in the future	I'll keep you in mind if another job comes up.	But we should keep in mind that books improve our vocabulary and, what's more, our imagination.
evp	mind	noun	5	B2	If an idea crosses your mind, you think about it for a short time.	It never crossed my mind that she might be married.	The first thought that crossed his mind was to call the police immediately and that was what he actually did.
evp	mind	noun	6	B2	to wait until you know all the facts before you form an opinion about something or judge someone	We're keeping an open mind about the causes of the fire.	To listen, to communicate, and to have an open mind are a way of life nowadays]
evp	mind	noun	7	C1	to say something that will help someone to stop worrying	I was worried about the test, but the nurse explained everything and put my mind at ease.	To drive, even though only for 30 minutes, might give you confidence for the driving test and put your mind at ease.
evp	mind	noun	8	C1	to give your full attention to something and try very hard to do it	You could win if you put your mind to it.	With all the technology available, the task is actually quite simple if you put your mind to it.
evp	mind	noun	9	C1	to have difficulty making a decision	I was of two minds about whether to invite him to the wedding.	
evp	mind	noun	10	C1	If something comes to mind, you think of it.	I was thinking about who might be suitable for this job, and your name came to mind.	The main problem that comes to mind concerning transportation within the city is the city road network.
evp	mind	noun	11	C2	If something blows your mind, you are very excited or surprised by it.	There was one scene in the movie that really blew my mind.	"MOMO," written by Michael Ende, is a book that blew my mind as a child and as an adult, I have read it many times, but the last time has been a while now.
evp	mind	noun	12	C2	to think or worry about something	Jim has a lot on his mind at the moment.	It was just that I already had a lot on my mind and my cousin's daughters would surely distract me from studying.
evp	mind	noun	13	C2	If something springs to mind, you suddenly think of it.	Mention fashion and Kate’s name immediately springs to mind.	A musical event that clearly springs to mind is a Rolling Stones concert in Parken, Copenhagen, which I attended in June 1998.
evp	mind	noun	14	C2	in your imagination or memory	In my mind's eye, I imagined the building painted white, with a beautiful garden around it.	He sees her in his mind's eye, running around barefoot, laughing and squealing, wading in the water and running back out, screaming, trying to get away from the breaking waves.
evp	mind	noun	15	C2	to say exactly what you think without worrying if it will upset anyone	She has very strong opinions and she's not afraid to speak her mind.	His father is even more eccentric, speaks his mind, and has no manners at all.
evp	mind	noun	16	C2	the way someone feels at a particular time	She was in a much more positive frame of mind today.	Naturally, these are more difficult factors to cope with for older people, but it just happens to anyone if you're not in the right frame of mind.
evp	mind	noun	17	C2	a feeling that you do not need to worry about anything	For my peace of mind, please check that the door is locked.	After all, successfully earning your living guarantees peace of mind.
evp	mind	noun	18	C2	the ability to deal with a difficult situation quickly and effectively	She had the presence of mind to press the alarm.	Frank tried to hide a bag behind his back with great presence of mind.
evp	mind	noun	19	C2	If something slips your mind, you forget about it.	I meant to tell her you had phoned, but it completely slipped my mind.	There was something but it slipped my mind before I reached it.
evp	mind	noun	20	C2	to try to remember	If you cast your mind back, you might recall that I never promised to go.	Thus, when I pick one of these stones, I cast my mind back to the specific place where I found it, the person I was, the particular moment.
evp	mind	verb	1	A2	something you say when politely asking if you can do something, or when asking someone else to do something	Do you mind if I turn the television on?	Do you mind if I bring a friend?
evp	mind	verb	2	A2	used to say the choice is not important when responding to an offer or suggestion	"Would you like tea or coffee?" "I don't mind - either."	I don't mind what we do.
evp	mind	verb	3	A2	used to tell someone not to worry about something because it is not important	"I'm afraid I've lost that wallet you gave me." "Well, never mind, I can easily buy you another one."	Never mind Ally, forget it, I know you['ve] been busy.
evp	mind	verb	4	B1	to be annoyed, unhappy or worried by something	Would she mind if I came too?	I want to borrow your bicycle if you don't mind because mine doesn't work well.
evp	mind	verb	5	B1	used to request something politely	Would you mind sharing a room?	Would you mind if I called you, to know what I've missed?
evp	mind	verb	6	C2	used to tell someone in that you are annoyed and they should not ask about something private	I wish you'd just mind your own business.	Despite knowing that he was only doing what he thought was best for me, I couldn't stand him, and I often told him to mind his own business.
evp	mine	noun	1	B2	an underground system of holes and passages where people dig out coal or other minerals	a coal/salt/gold mine	It is a more or less industrial region with many coal mines.
evp	miner	noun	1	C1	someone who works in a mine	a coal miner	We are used to strikes in our country so when we heard that the miners had refused to work we did not despair.
evp	mineral water	noun	1	A2	water which is taken from the ground and contains natural chemical substances	still/carbonated mineral water	P.S. You can bring a bottle of mineral water.
evp	mingle	verb	1	C1	to meet and talk to other people in a place or at an event	The party will be a good opportunity to mingle with the other students.	I let them mingle with other children and surprisingly, I can see that they are very sociable and they know how to respect the rights of other people.
evp	mingle	verb	2	C2	to mix, or be mixed	The smell of coffee mingled with fresh-baked bread.	The chill current of approaching winter mingled with a lingering warmth of summer so that the air became fresh and alive.
evp	miniature	adjective	1	C2	extremely small	a miniature camera	Behind him was piled the most awkward assortment of stuff I had ever seen: a miniature Eiffel Tower, a monocycle, a letter-box, three netted cages, an accordion, and a bunch of other things whose name I couldn't even guess.
evp	miniature	noun	1	C2	If something is in miniature, it is a very small copy of something else.	a model of the ship in miniature	Thirdly a co-educational school is a society in miniature and it has many practical advantages.
evp	minimal	adjective	1	C1	as small or as little as possible	Damage to the building was minimal.	Areas which are not transited regularly (such as warehouses, restrooms, etc.) are to be kept in minimal lighting conditions.
evp	minimize	verb	1	C1	to make the amount of something that is unpleasant or not wanted as small as possible	Airport staff are trying to minimize the inconvenience caused to passengers.	Try to minimize your working time and spend more time with other people.
evp	minimum	adjective	1	B1	The minimum amount of something is the smallest amount that is allowed, needed, or possible.	There is a minimum charge of $5 for postage.	I am going to phone them to ask how much the wage is, but anyway the minimum rate in England is £3.60.
evp	minimum	noun	1	B1	the smallest amount that is allowed, needed, or possible	The judge sentenced him to a minimum of five years in prison.	You should spend a minimum of 1-2 hours per day on this activity.
evp	mining	noun	1	C1	the industry or activity of removing substances such as coal or metal from the ground by digging	coal/salt mining	My company deals mostly with the mining, processing and beneficiation of magnesite ore. Most of our final products are sold abroad.
evp	minister	noun	1	B2	a member of the government in Britain and many other countries who is in charge of a particular department or has an important position in it	the foreign/health minister	He was elected minister of sports, creating some laws to help the players to be more independent.
evp	ministry	noun	1	C1	in some countries, a government department that is responsible for a particular subject	the Ministry of Defense/Agriculture	According to a majority of students, it's quite economical for them to go to state schools since the Turkish Ministry of Education gives them scholarships.
evp	minor	adjective	1	B2	not important or serious	a minor offense/operation	Happily they were found by some hunters and escaped with minor injuries.
evp	minority	noun	1	B2	less than half of a group of people or things	Only a minority of people support the proposal.	On the other hand, the minority of people who believe the opposite maybe want to see the animals and to watch their movements.
evp	minority	noun	2	C1	a group of people who share some characteristic that is different from most of the people where they live	ethnic/religious minorities	The novel reveals very clearly to the reader how minorities are exploited and scorned by society.
evp	mint	noun	1	B2	a herb whose leaves have a strong fresh smell and taste and are used for giving flavor to food and drinks such as tea	a bunch of mint	I'd recommend his special lamb chop with mint sauce, it's just so delicious.
evp	minute	noun	1	A1	a period of time equal to 60 seconds	a ten-minute bus ride	I had a break for 20 minutes.
evp	minute	noun	2	A2	a very short period of time	I'll be with you in a minute.	Without losing a minute I packed my things and I took a cab home.
evp	minute	noun	3	B1	said in order to interrupt someone, or to get their attention or when you have suddenly thought of something important	Wait a minute - I've just had an idea.	Oh! Wait a minute...
evp	minute	noun	4	B2	very soon	Her train should be arriving any minute.	The evil creatures who were bound to come out of the dark w]oul see Carla any minute now.
evp	minute	noun	5	B2	the latest time possible	The concert was canceled at the last minute.	We were very disappointed to hear that the actor was replaced by an]othe at the last minute.
evp	minute	noun	6	C2	as soon as	I'll tell you the minute we hear any news.	Even when we are small babies, from the minute that we are able to understand what is happening around us, the first thing that we do is try to learn and touch everything that is close to us and get familiar with it.
evp	minute	adjective	1	C2	extremely small	a minute amount/quantity	I see no sense in having a supermarket, an ugly and gigantic block, next to a village where the inhabitants only require a minute amount of food, since we are all self-sustaining because of our farms.
evp	minute	adjective	2	C2	done in great detail	He explained everything in minute detail.	He is also a person who can pay meticulous attention to minute details.
evp	miracle	noun	1	B2	something that is very surprising or difficult to believe	an economic miracle	Every single day we hear about new products, new methods, new technological miracles which have turned our daily lives upside down]
evp	mirror	noun	1	A2	a piece of glass with a shiny metallic material on one side which produces an image of anything that is in front of it	the bathroom mirror	The mirror was given to me by Jenny.
evp	misbehave	verb	1	C1	to behave badly	If you misbehave, you will be punished - it's as simple as that.	Firstly, an apology is due to all nearby residents whose lives were disturbed by a few somewhat misbehaving students.
evp	miserable	adjective	1	B1	sad	I just woke up feeling miserable.	I feel very miserable and my boyfriend is still angry with me because that ring was his gift for our first year together.
evp	miserable	adjective	2	B2	very unpleasant or bad, and causing someone to feel unhappy	miserable weather	Heathcliff always swears revenge because of the miserable situation the other characters have put him in.
evp	misery	noun	1	B2	great suffering or unhappiness	The war brought misery to millions of people.	[A] few hours of amusement for us might mean a whole life of misery for the animals.
evp	misfortune	noun	1	C1	bad luck, or an unlucky event	He had the misfortune to fall in love with a married woman.	But try not to wear black because they believe it brings bad luck and misfortune.
evp	mishap	noun	1	C2	an accident or unlucky event which usually is not serious	They suffered a series of mishaps during the trip.	Personally speaking, I have always received courteous attention from my parents and this has helped me overcome all mishaps that may occur.
evp	misinform	verb	1	C1	to give someone false information	I'm afraid you've been misinformed about your test results.	From the article, I got the impression that your reporter was misinformed about certain facts which are crucial for a better understanding of the event.
evp	misinterpret	verb	1	C2	to understand something in the wrong way	He claims his speech was deliberately misinterpreted by journalists.	A direct consequence of this is that adults misinterpret their intentions and object to youth's lack of respect.
evp	misinterpretation	noun	1	C2	when something is understood in the wrong way	What he said was a complete misinterpretation of my views.	As written in the letter, which I hope you have received from my friend, I worked with in this organization, we want to inform you of the true version in order to avoid misinterpretations and misunderstandings.
evp	mislead	verb	1	C1	to make someone believe something that is untrue by giving them information that is wrong or not complete	She claims the public was misled by the government.	I would like to point out that some information in the article was wrong, which could mislead your readers.
evp	misleading	adjective	1	B2	making someone believe something that is untrue	misleading information/statements	I found it rather misleading and I would like to provide true information about the festival.
evp	misplace	verb	1	C2	to lose something temporarily by forgetting where you have put it	I seem to have misplaced my keys.	It is only when these possessions are lost or stolen or simply misplaced that they are greatly missed.
evp	Miss	noun	1	A1	a title for a girl or woman who is not married, used before her family name or full name	Dr. White will see you now, Miss Carter.	Dear Miss Timson, How are you?
evp	miss	verb	1	A2	to not go to something	You'll fall behind in your studies if you keep missing school.	You only missed the best party of the year!
evp	miss	verb	2	A2	to feel sad about someone that you do not see now or something that you do not have or do now	I really missed her when she went away.	I miss you a lot.
evp	miss	verb	3	A2	to arrive too late to get on a bus, train, aircraft, etc.	You'll miss your train if you don't hurry up.	Even if we missed the train, I was happy and this was the most important thing.
evp	miss	verb	4	B1	to not use an opportunity to do something	You can't afford to miss a chance like this.	[It's] the most important tennis competition in my town, and I can't miss this opportunity.
evp	miss	verb	5	B1	to avoid doing or experiencing something	You should leave early if you want to miss the rush hour.	If you want to have a nice time, you should leave the hotel early in the morning because in this way you will miss the rush-hour traffic.
evp	miss	verb	6	B1	to not see or hear something	Sorry, I missed that, could you repeat it please?	First of all, the Festival began on time at midday with King Cup. Maybe you might have missed that part.
evp	miss	verb	7	B2	to fail to do something at the correct time or to be too late to do something or see something or someone	I wanted to see that movie but I missed it.	I missed the dinner I was going to have with my best friend in London.
evp	miss	verb	8	B2	to not hit or catch something as you intended	It should have been such an easy goal and he missed.	He aimed for the heart, and, when he was about to fire, an innocent pigeon landed on his rifle. Paul wasn't expecting this, and his shot missed the judge.
evp	miss	verb	9	C2	to be too late to do or get something	I'm afraid you've missed the boat. The concert tickets have sold out.	What if she never had another chance? What if she missed the boat? Overcome by the anxiety and the lack of sleep, the first thing she did in the morning was to pick up two of her best poems and put them in an envelope.
evp	miss	verb	10	B2	to not do or have something that you would enjoy or something that other people do or have	I got to the party too late and missed out on all the fun.	They don't know what they are missing out on.
evp	missile	noun	1	C2	an explosive weapon which can travel long distances through the air	nuclear missiles	In the meantime dissident elements of the terrorist organization had tried to make contact with the United States intelligence organizations to warn them of possible bomb or missile attacks on their Kenyan and Tanzanian missions.
evp	missing	adjective	1	A2	If someone or something is missing, you cannot find them because they are not in their usual place.	Her father has been missing since September 1992.	Yesterday, when I reached home, I found that my note book was missing.
evp	missing	adjective	2	B1	not included in something	There are a couple of names missing from the list.	But even with all this furniture, I feel like there is something missing, so I have decided to buy some posters of my favorite rock bands and put them o] the walls.
evp	mission	noun	1	B2	someone's duty or purpose in life	Her mission in life was to help the poor.	You think that you are "great," since you can cope with both the job and lots of other "missions" in life, education, sports and so on.
evp	mission	noun	2	C2	an important job, usually traveling somewhere	I'll be going on a fact-finding mission to Paris next week.	Apparently somebody had tried to sabotage the mission and given them both different code words.
evp	mist	noun	1	B2	small drops of water in the air which make it difficult to see objects which are not near	The early-morning mist soon lifted/cleared.	The mist was getting thicker all the time and the rain was coming down harder.
evp	mistake	noun	1	A2	something that you do or think that is wrong	He made a lot of mistakes in his written test.	You might need an eraser if you make a mistake.
evp	mistake	noun	2	B1	If you do something by mistake, you do it without intending to.	I picked up someone else's book by mistake.	[A]fter 30 minutes, a man appeared telling us that he had taken our suitcases by mistake.
evp	mistaken	adjective	1	C1	If you are mistaken, or you have a mistaken belief, you are wrong about something.	If you think you can behave like that, you are mistaken.	First of all, you mentioned in the article that we promised 45 stalls for that day, but you are completely mistaken as we announced only 35.
evp	misty	adjective	1	B2	If the weather is misty, there is a cloud of small drops of water in the air, which makes it difficult to see objects that are not near.	a cold and misty morning	But the evenings were a bit cold and misty.
evp	misunderstand	verb	1	B2	to not understand someone or something correctly	He misunderstood the question completely.	He meant that he had misunderstood the situation.
evp	misunderstand	verb	2	C2	If someone is misunderstood, other people do not understand that they have good qualities.	He was a genius, but misunderstood by society at the time.	He was misunderstood by the adult world, he only wanted to be away from everybody, he wanted to be all by himself.
evp	misunderstanding	noun	1	B2	when someone does not understand something correctly	There must have been a misunderstanding.	I suppose there was a misunderstanding, because he told me on the phone that he had arranged with you to come next week.
evp	misuse	verb	1	C1	to use something in the wrong way or for the wrong purpose	He misused his position to obtain money dishonestly.	By doing this the money won't be misused because we won't have to build a new indoor court that will not be used at all times.
evp	misuse	noun	1	C1	the use of something in the wrong way or for the wrong purpose	They accused him of misuse of power.	Can we disregard the consequences there may be of the misuse of the above innovations of technology?
evp	mix	verb	1	A2	If two or more substances mix, they combine to make one substance, and if you mix two or more substances, you combine them to make one substance.	Oil and water don't mix.	I can work at the bar mixing drinks.
evp	mix	verb	2	B1	to have two or more qualities, or to do two or more activities, etc. at the same time	a feeling of anger mixed with sadness	That also could be a good way to mix learning and entertainment.
evp	mix	verb	3	B2	to meet and talk to people	She enjoys going to parties and mixing with people.	I like mixing with people.
evp	mix	verb	4	B2	to confuse two people or things by thinking that one person or thing is the other person or thing	People often mix up the sisters because they look so similar.	My role was to arrange all the cables for the light and sound, and now we are talking cables of about the length of 100 m each. I'd really had a lot to do not to get them mixed up.
evp	mix	noun	1	B1	a combination of things or people, often in a group	There's a good mix of nationalities in the class.	This film is a mix of fantasy and adventure.
evp	mixture	noun	1	B2	a substance made of other substances that have been combined	The mixture of flour, water and yeast is then left in a warm place for four hours.	
evp	mixture	noun	2	B2	when there is a combination of two or more ideas, qualities, styles, etc.	Their house is decorated in a mixture of styles.	The result is a very strange mixture of different styles.
evp	moan	verb	1	C2	to make a low sound, especially because you are in pain	She lay on the floor moaning.	He moaned and groaned but he did not have any obvious signs of injuries.
evp	moan	verb	2	C2	to complain or speak in a way that shows you are unhappy	He's always moaning about something.	She had been moaning all week about her job and her difficulties with this and that, but she couldn't remember having asked even once how Simon was getting along]
evp	modal (verb)	noun	1	B1	a verb, for example "can," "might" or "must," that is used before another verb to show that something is possible, necessary, etc.	The first verb in the following sentence is a modal: We ought to pay the gas bill.	
evp	mode	noun	1	C1	a way of doing something	a mode of transport	In conclusion, I think that both modes of education play a great role in educating children to be good members of society.
evp	model	noun	1	A2	a design of machine or car that is made by a particular company	a luxury/new model	I like it very much, because it is the latest model and nobody at our school has it.
evp	model	noun	2	A2	a smaller copy of a real object, often used to show how something works or what it looks like	a model of the railroad	I'm good at making models and telling stories.
evp	model	noun	3	B1	someone whose job is to wear fashionable clothes, be in photographs, etc., in order to advertise things	a fashion model	In the future I hope to be a clothes designer or a top model.
evp	model	noun	4	C2	someone or something that is an example for others to copy	Their educational system was a model for other countries.	She is a "model" citizen of the Fahrenheit 451 society: she doesn't ask questions, she doesn't think by herself, either.
evp	moderate	adjective	1	C1	average in size or amount and not too much	a moderate income	We have to eat healthy food and in moderate quantities, and to do our daily exercises.
evp	moderate	verb	1	C2	to make something less extreme	He's trying to moderate his drinking.	
evp	moderately	adverb	1	C2	to a degree that is average but not very great	There's very little moderately priced housing in this area.	Very often a moderately well-off person would take his chance and try to change his life, hopefully for the better.
evp	modern	adjective	1	A2	using the newest ideas, design, technology, etc. and not traditional	modern architecture/art/medicine	I am going to use the green paint] I think it looks very modern.
evp	modern	adjective	2	B1	relating to the present time and not to the past	modern society	You'll see the modern Japan.
evp	modest	adjective	1	B2	not large in size or amount, or not expensive or important	a modest amount of money	It is an honour for us to receive such a well-known writer in our modest school.
evp	modest	adjective	2	C1	If you are modest, you do not talk in a proud way about your skills or successes.	He's very modest about his achievements.	Earning a lot she is still very modest and does not show any signs of vanity at all.
evp	modestly	adverb	1	C1	by a small size or amount	At just £9, the DVD is very modestly priced.	
evp	modestly	adverb	2	C2	in a quiet way that does not show off your abilities, wealth, success, etc.	She spoke modestly about her work.	Some of them extravagantly and some modestly, depending on the status, importance and financial affordability of the people getting married.
evp	modification	noun	1	C1	a small change to something	We've made a few modifications to the system.	Although I am very happy with the current design of my house I may make some modifications in the future.
evp	modify	verb	1	C1	to change something in order to improve it	The plans will have to be modified to reduce costs.	To sum up, the Work Experience in Britain program should be modified as it was a far cry from what we had been led to expect.
evp	mom	noun	1	A1	a mother	I miss my mom and dad a lot.	It is very important for me because my mom gave it to me for my birthday last year.
evp	momentum	noun	1	C2	the continuing progress, motion, development, etc., that a person or thing is experiencing	A falling object gains momentum as it falls.	Mr. Emerson strongly believes in social equality, and his views can be regarded as the reflection of the democratic movements gaining momentum at the beginning of our century.
evp	Monday	noun	1	A1	the day of the week after Sunday and before Tuesday	I start my new job on Monday.	He goes to school Monday and Friday.
evp	monetary	adjective	1	C2	relating to money	monetary policy	Indeed such a country, by accepting tourists, can exchange its probably weak currency with potentially hard currencies of strong monetary value, and help its economy.
evp	money	noun	1	A1	the coins or bills that are used to buy things	How much money do you have?	He is from England and he is very friendly and he works a lot because he likes money.
evp	monitor	noun	1	B2	a screen that shows information or pictures, usually connected to a computer	I bought a bigger monitor for my computer.	We know our world from TV screens and computer monitors.
evp	monitor	noun	2	B2	someone whose job is to watch or check something	a class/school monitor	On Wednesday the 13th I'll be a monitor in a studying group (it's a task due to my scholarship).
evp	monitor	verb	1	C1	to watch and check someone or something carefully over a period of time	to monitor progress	As I said before, a close and personalized monitoring of the child (particularly when young) is very important, and the only way to do this is to reduce the number of students per class.
evp	monkey	noun	1	A2	a hairy animal with a long tail that lives in hot countries and climbs trees	Of all the animals at the zoo he liked the monkeys best.	You can see animals like monkeys and birds, you can feed the fishes and also have a great meal at the restaurant.
evp	monopoly	noun	1	C2	control by a company or group over all of a type of business or activity	The Postal Service is guaranteed a monopoly on all first-class letters.	In fact, it is quite obvious that the reason why a second supermarket is planned in our area is related to the current monopoly of the first supermarket.
evp	monotonous	adjective	1	C1	If something is monotonous, it is boring because it stays the same.	a monotonous voice	The voice of the speaker is monotonous and lacks any rhythm or modulation, intrinsic parts of any language without which proper acquisition of it is impossible.
evp	monster	noun	1	B1	an imaginary creature that is large, ugly, and frightening	a sea monster	It was a cartoon, telling a story about a monster, Stitch, who changed the life of a little girl called Lilo.
evp	monster	noun	2	C2	a cruel and frightening person	To the whole world, he was a monster.	In her opinion he was a monster without any human feelings.
evp	month	noun	1	A1	one of the twelve periods of time that a year is divided into	February is the shortest month.	I need to ask you, if I can start this course next month, i] January, and finish in June.
evp	month	noun	2	A1	a period of approximately four weeks	She'll be working here for six months.	My boy friend and I visit every winter for 3-4 months.
evp	monthly	adjective	1	B1	happening or produced once a month	monthly payments	At the moment I pay £550 monthly plus bills.
evp	monument	noun	1	B1	an old building or place that is important in history	an ancient monument	In these cities you will be able to visit ancient monuments.
evp	monument	noun	2	B2	a structure that is built to make people remember an event in history or a famous person	In the square in front of the hotel stands a monument to all the people killed in the war.	First I went to see the Larienki Park and admired the beautiful monument to the greatest Polish composer - Chopin.
evp	mood	noun	1	B1	the way you feel at a particular time	She's in a bad mood.	I reckon I was in a bad mood, but nothing had happened to end our relationship.
evp	mood	noun	2	B2	to not be friendly to other people because you are feeling angry	Ignore him - he's in a mood.	I didn't mind the rain, actually I prefer rain when I am in a mood like that.
evp	mood	noun	3	C2	to want to do or have something	I'm not really in the mood for shopping at the moment.	Should you be in the mood for a walk around the lake then go for it.
evp	moonlight	noun	1	B2	light that comes from the moon	In the moonlight, she looked even more beautiful.	The floor was dark, and the moonlight which came through the window gave the only light.
evp	moral	adjective	1	B2	relating to beliefs about what is right or wrong	moral values	Her ideas and her moral values are pure, conveyed clearly and imparted to young children in spite of their lively jauntiness.
evp	moral	adjective	2	C1	behaving in ways considered by most people to be correct and honest	He's a highly moral man.	Taking into account all these matters, we can see a moral, brave man fighting for his country and for what he believes in.
evp	moral	noun	1	C1	a lesson that can be learned from a story or event	The moral of the story is never lie.	The hidden moral she's trying to tell me is that I'll have to do everything by myself.
evp	moral	noun	2	C2	standards for good behavior	He has no morals.	Without limits, without morals, a child cannot build his own personality.
evp	morale	noun	1	C2	the amount of confidence or hope for the future that people feel	The increase in pay should help to improve staff morale.	Recent events have caused the morale of the troops to disintegrate completely.
evp	morally	adverb	1	B2	in a moral way	morally wrong/unacceptable	Doesn't it seems morally wrong? Animals need their space and natural surroundings to survive.
evp	more	adverb	1	A1	used before an adjective or adverb to show that someone or something has a greater amount of a quality than someone or something else	This exercise is more difficult than the last one.	This place is more beautiful than Stratford.
evp	more	adverb	2	B1	used to show that something happens a greater number of times than before	We eat out a lot more than we used to.	We really should do this more often.
evp	more	adverb	3	B2	almost or approximately	We've more or less finished work on the house.	I will now give you some information, so that you know more or less what you can expect.
evp	more	adverb	4	B2	more as time passes	It's becoming more and more expensive to buy property in the city.	Cycling is getting more and more popular in Poland.
evp	moreover	adverb	1	B2	also and more importantly	The whole report is badly written. Moreover, it's inaccurate.	Because it is a well-k[n]own hotel it should be easy to find it. Moreover, it is really well-located, so it will allow you to move around the city without any problem.
evp	morning	noun	1	A1	the first half of the day, from the time when the sun rises or you wake up until the middle of the day	Friday morning	I wake up at 8 a.m every morning.
evp	morning	noun	2	A1	used to say hello to someone in the morning	Good morning, Sarah!	
evp	morning	noun	3	A1	during the early part of the day	I listen to the radio in the morning.	He loves to get up early in the morning.
evp	morning	noun	4	B1	2/3/4, etc. o'clock at night	My car alarm went off at 3 o'clock in the morning.	I came home at 4 o'clock in the morning.
evp	morning	noun	5	B1	tomorrow morning	I'll pack in the morning.	
evp	mortality	noun	1	C2	the number of deaths at a particular time or in a particular place	infant mortality	In addition, these countries often have a high birth-rate in combination with a high mortality rate.
evp	mosque	noun	1	A2	a building for Islamic religious activities and worship	They've just built a mosque there.	Dear Wendy, The mosque at the end of town is an interesting place.
evp	mosquito	noun	1	B1	a small flying insect that sucks your blood, sometimes causing malaria	mosquito bites	You should stay in a city because of the things that only a city can offer and an important detail about countryside is the mosquitoes, there are a lot!
evp	mostly	adverb	1	B1	mainly or most of the time	Her friends are mostly Italian.	Normally I wear black or blue jeans and I mostly wear t-shirts and a light jacket.
evp	mother	noun	1	A1	a female parent	a single mother	Eduardo is a good boy [...] he helps his mother at home.
evp	mother	noun	2	B2	the first language that you learn when you are a child	Italian is my mother tongue but I started to learn English when I was six.	I can speak English and French fluently, added to my mother tongue, Japanese.
evp	mother-in-law	noun	1	B2	the mother of your husband or wife	I get on well with my mother-in-law.	I was a little afraid of getting into contact with my mother-in-law.
evp	motion	noun	1	C2	when or how something moves	The motion of the boat made him feel sick.	The motion of the air caused by the jet engines makes all the windows tremble and some of them break.
evp	motion	noun	2	C2	a suggestion that you make in a formal meeting or court of law	Someone proposed a motion to increase the membership fee.	Nevertheless Mark and Paul maintained their ground and submitted motion after motion to the parliament in order to be allowed to continue their work and use their technique commercially.
evp	motion	noun	3	C2	to do something because you are expected to do it and not because you want to	Lately he seems to just go through the motions and doesn't enjoy the job at all.	She went through the motions of every-day-life without enthusiasm.
evp	motivate	verb	1	C1	to make someone enthusiastic about doing something	Teaching is all about motivating people to learn.	There are a lot of tools that can be used to motivate people and it is the Human Resources department who should take care of using them properly.
evp	motivate	verb	2	C1	to cause someone to behave in a particular way	Some people are motivated by greed.	Most of us are motivated by fear.
evp	motivated	adjective	1	B2	enthusiastic and determined to succeed	a very motivated student	Furthermore, after a break people are often very motivated to go on with their education.
evp	motivation	noun	1	B2	enthusiasm for doing something	You need a lot of motivation to succeed.	I hope my motivation and my hard work capacity can help me cope with the work successfully.
evp	motivation	noun	2	C1	the need or reason for doing something	One motivation for reducing the staff was the need to cut costs.	Although money is the main motivation, for many people, to work, I have come across many people who have worked voluntarily or for less money to gain relevant experience.
evp	motive	noun	1	B2	a reason for doing something	The police don't yet know the motive for the killing.	It was not likely that he had done the murder - because there was no motive.
evp	motor	noun	1	B2	the part of a machine or vehicle that changes electricity or fuel into movement and makes it work	The pump is powered by a small electric motor.	The boat is 26 feet long; it is a sailboat with an inboard motor.
evp	motorcycle	noun	1	A2	a vehicle with two wheels and an engine	She jumped on her motorcycle and raced off down the road.	My father bought a motorcycle.
evp	motorist	noun	1	B2	a person who drives a car	Motorists will be hit hard by the rise in fuel prices.	According to motorists, cars are better than bikes, as you feel more comfortable and relaxed inside them.
evp	mountain	noun	1	A2	a raised part of the Earth's surface, much larger than a hill, the top of which might be covered in snow	The Matterhorn is one of the biggest mountains in Europe.	Perhaps we can go to the mountains.
evp	mountain	noun	2	C2	a large amount of something	I’ve got mountains of work to do.	But I had to get up to deal with a mountain of documents on my desk.
evp	mouse	noun	1	A2	a small piece of equipment connected to a computer that you move with your hand to control what the computer does	Move your mouse over the screen.	And I had a present! [An] optical mouse for my computer!
evp	mouse	noun	2	A2	a small animal with fur and a long, thin tail	a field mouse	Some students and I put a mouse on the teacher's chair and he seemed to be afraid, but he accepted the joke.
evp	mouth	noun	1	A1	the part of the face that is used for eating and speaking	Open your mouth wide and say "Ah."	[The doll is my favorite birthday present, because it has two big eyes, a small nose and a small mouth.
evp	mouth	noun	2	B2	to say nothing	He told me to keep my mouth shut.	She made every effort to keep her mouth shut but it disturbed her to be the only one to know the truth, apart from her brother.
evp	mouth	noun	3	B2	to stop talking	Just shut your mouth and stop whining!	But I couldn't shut my mouth, I continued: "You can't believe it Pat, she wears trousers like men and green flowery blouses."
evp	mouth	noun	4	C1	where a river goes into the sea	It is a small village, by the mouth of a river.	The mouth of the river with a narrow exit to the sea, provided an extra excitement because of the pressure of the water when joining the sea.
evp	mouth	noun	5	C2	by one person telling another telling you	Students learned of the center by word of mouth.	In the past news traveled mostly by word of mouth and it took days and sometimes weeks before a person would become aware of an occurrence on the other end of the world.
evp	mouth	noun	6	C2	to say something you should not say, especially something embarrassing	He makes outrageous comments and is always putting his foot in his mouth.	
evp	move	verb	1	A2	to change place or position, or to make something change place or position	I'm so cold I can't move my fingers.	When you move the mouse, it lights up]
evp	move	verb	2	B1	If a person or an organization moves, they go to a different place to live or work.	We're thinking of moving - perhaps to the country.	As my office will move to the west of the town next month, it will be difficult for me to still live in this house.
evp	move	verb	3	B2	to change the time or order of something	We need to move the meeting back a few days.	Unfortunately, we have to move the time of our departure be]caus of technical problems.
evp	move	verb	4	B2	to make someone have strong feelings of sadness or sympathy	I was deeply moved by his speech.	I was very moved: it was so beautiful!
evp	move	verb	5	C2	to hurry	We're leaving in five minutes, so get moving!	"Oh, look at the time, we must get moving!"
evp	move	verb	6	B1	to begin living in a new home	She's just moved in with some friends.	Well, when I just moved in, I didn't do anything, except put[ ]a new bed in my bedroom.
evp	move	verb	7	C1	to change from one subject to another when you are talking or writing	Let's move on to the next topic.	Let's move on to the way of teaching and the subjects.
evp	move	verb	8	C1	to start doing a new activity	I'd done the same job for ten years and felt it was time to move on.	We have to wait for our turn to use one of the computers, and tend to have a chat with the colleagues in the meanwhile instead of moving on to another thing.
evp	move	verb	9	B1	to stop living in a particular home	Her landlord has given her a week to move out.	I need to move out and find something near the Business Park area.
evp	move	noun	1	C1	an action taken to achieve something	It was a good career move.	Having always been interested in environmental issues, I am happy to read among your excellent articles your "It'll Cost The Earth" new column. I think that was a good move because something like that was missing from the press and generally from your readers.
evp	move	noun	2	C1	when you change the place where you live or when a business changes the place where it is located	The office move is scheduled for March.	Finally, my opinion is that we should make the move to the suburbs.
evp	move	noun	3	C2	the act of changing your position	One wrong move and he would have fallen off the ladder.	Some minutes later the DJ played a song I loved to dance to at the time, called "Satisfaction" by Benny Bennusi, so I indulged in some rather wild dance moves.
evp	move	noun	4	C2	to hurry	Come on, get a move on!	"All the lights will be switched off in 28 minutes, so I have to get a move on," I said to myself, as I started to write on a new piece of paper.
evp	movement	noun	1	B2	a change of position or place	He made a sudden movement and frightened the bird away.	She must sit for two hours without any movement.
evp	movement	noun	2	C1	a group of people with the same beliefs who work together to achieve something	the women's movement	Obviously what started some time ago as a feminist movement has now grown to the level of independence, economically and most important, socially.
evp	movie	noun	1	A1	a story shown in moving pictures, shown in a theater or on television	Do you want to rent/watch a movie tonight?	We played games, had our snacks and then watched a movie.
evp	movie	noun	2	A1	the showing of movies or the business of making movies	They go to the movies almost every Friday.	Of course I want to go to the movies with you.
evp	movie theater	noun	1	A1	a building where you go to watch movies	There are three movie theaters nearby.	We will go to the movie theater near Duran's home.
evp	moving	adjective	1	B2	causing strong feelings of sadness or sympathy	She read a moving speech at the funeral.	It was a really moving story.
evp	MP3 player	noun	1	A2	a piece of electronic equipment for playing music that has been stored as MP3 files	He gave me an MP3 player.	Dear Sarah, I left my MP3 player at your house last night.
evp	Mr.	noun	1	A1	a title for a man, used before his family name or full name	Mr. Jones/Mr. David Jones	I spoke with Mr. Beamish last week.
evp	Mrs.	noun	1	A1	a title for a married woman, used before her family name or full name	Mrs. Wood/Mrs. Jean Wood	Dear Mrs. Dunn, Could you help me?
evp	Ms.	noun	1	A2	a title for a woman, used before her family name or full name	Ms. Hill / Ms. Pamela Hill	This morning I have met Ms. Talarico, she told me we'll need three pencils and a bag to keep all of our drawings.
evp	much	adverb	1	A1	a large amount or degree	Thank you very much for the flowers!	I like Bradford very much.
evp	much	adverb	2	B1	used mainly in questions or negative sentences to mean often or a lot	Do you go to London much?	I wear skirts, too, but not very much.
evp	much	adverb	3	B1	used before comparative adjectives such as "better" and "more beautiful" to mean "a lot"	Their old house was much bigger.	This class is so much better than the old one.
evp	mud	noun	1	B2	a thick liquid mixture of soil and water, or this mixture after it has dried	You've got mud on your shoes.	It may sound funny, but mud, gravel and snow lying on the school's floors is not a nice sight, so we change our shoes without questioning that rule.
evp	muddle	noun	1	C2	a situation of confusion or bad organization	There was a big muddle over who was buying the tickets.	She couldn't make out how to get out of the muddle she wa] in.
evp	muddle	verb	1	C2	to get something done even though you are not organized or prepared	I don’t know how to keep score – I’ll just have to muddle through.	
evp	muddled	adjective	1	C2	confusing and disorganized	muddled thinking	Lucy is all muddled and confused.
evp	muddy	adjective	1	B2	covered by or containing mud	a muddy stream	I went out into the kitchen. I looked around to see if I could see him, but he was gone, only the wet, muddy footprints were left.
evp	mug	noun	1	A2	a large cup with straight sides used for hot drinks	a coffee mug	I got a big mug for my birthday.
evp	multiple	adjective	1	C1	with several things or parts	multiple injuries	The report contains multiple errors and gives the reader a totally incorrect view of the event.
evp	mumble	verb	1	B2	to speak too quietly and not clearly enough for someone to understand you	He mumbled something about it being a waste of time.	I started mumbling something and I could feel I was red because my cheeks were hot.
evp	mundane	adjective	1	C1	ordinary, or not interesting	a mundane task/life	Lastly, it would be a good idea to travel to an island and to escape for a while from your mundane routine.
evp	municipal	adjective	1	C1	relating or belonging to the government of a town or city	municipal officials/employees	This is a very expensive development, so expensive, that our municipal government can't bear the costs.
evp	murder	noun	1	B1	the crime of intentionally killing a person	to commit murder	It was about a murder which had taken place on the beach.
evp	murder	verb	1	B1	to kill someone intentionally and illegally	He was murdered by a former employee.	It's about the man who murdered a lot of people.
evp	murderer	noun	1	B1	someone who has committed murder	a mass murderer	A few weeks later the police caught the murderer of my best friend.
evp	murmur	verb	1	C2	to speak quietly so that you can only be heard by someone near you	"Go to sleep now," she murmured.	"They're so unprofessional," he murmured to himself.
evp	murmur	noun	1	C2	the sound of something being said quietly	I could hear the low murmur of voices from behind the door.	All Sandra could do was to nod every now and again to his murmurs.
evp	muscle	noun	1	B2	one of many pieces of tissue in the body that are connected to bones and which produce movement by becoming longer or shorter	neck/back/leg/stomach muscles	It tones the muscles in this area and provides us with stamina and good health.
evp	muscle	noun	2	C2	to injure a muscle by stretching it too much	I pulled a muscle in my leg when I was skiing.	
evp	museum	noun	1	A1	a building where you can look at important objects connected with art, history, or science	a museum of modern art	We sometimes go to a museum.
evp	mushroom	noun	1	A2	a type of fungus with a short stem and a round top, some types of which can be eaten	pasta with wild mushrooms	They usually buy wine and prepare a traditional Polish meal like cabbage with mushrooms and sausages.
evp	music	noun	1	A1	a pattern of sounds that is made by playing instruments or singing, or a recording of this	classical/pop/dance/rock music	I like to listen to music.
evp	music	noun	2	C1	to accept punishment or criticism for something bad that you have done	If she doesn't have a good reason for being late, she'll just have to face the music.	Teenagers who live with their parents have to face the music about the long bills their parents receive monthly!
evp	musical	adjective	1	A2	related to music	musical instruments	We want to help you by bringing drums and some of the musical instruments.
evp	musical	adjective	2	C1	good at playing music	She comes from a very musical family.	[These] people are very musical and, therefore, you will find folk songs and even unique dances.
evp	musical	noun	1	B2	a play or movie in which singing and dancing tell part of the story	a Broadway musical	[M]y wife and I wanted to spend a nice and enjoyable evening and decided to go and see the musical.
evp	musically	adverb	1	C2	in a way that relates to music	It's a school for musically gifted children.	Not that I was musically gifted or wanted to become a pianist, it was just the fact that I loved music that led my step there.
evp	musician	noun	1	B1	someone who plays a musical instrument, often as a job	a talented jazz/classical musician	The movie is about two musicians that had to dress like women to escape from the gangsters of Chicago.
evp	mustache	noun	1	B1	a line of hair that some men grow above their mouths	Groucho Marx had a thick black mustache.	Alison thought she was dreaming, he hadn't] changed, not even his mustache.
evp	mustard	noun	1	C1	a thick, spicy yellow or brown sauce often eaten in small amounts with meat	a teaspoon of mustard	You just ask for what you want put in it - ham, eggs, salad, chicken, mustard, etc.
evp	mutter	verb	1	B2	to speak quietly so that your voice is difficult to hear, often when complaining about something	He was muttering (away) to himself.	"Emile Zola is the best writer", he muttered.
evp	mutual	adjective	1	C1	When two or more people have a mutual feeling, they have the same opinion about each other.	mutual admiration/respect	It will hugely contribute to better understanding between the parties as well as add to a mutual respect and trust.
evp	mutual	adjective	2	C1	When two or more people have a mutual friend or interest, they have the same one.	Andrew and Jean were introduced to each other by a mutual friend.	The wedding celebration attended by all who are involved is the first step for the couple to succeed in marriage and get support from their mutual friends and families.
evp	mysterious	adjective	1	B2	strange or unknown, and not explained or understood	a mysterious stranger	He went to the Hotel because he wanted to find out who was the person that had sent him a mysterious letter a few days ago.
evp	mysteriously	adverb	1	C1	in a way that is mysterious	"Perhaps, and perhaps not," she said mysteriously.	Mysteriously, their character always dies tragically or goes abroad and is never seen again.
evp	mystery	noun	1	B1	something strange or unknown which has not yet been explained or understood	an unsolved mystery	I have chosen this film because it has mystery in it and a lot of fun!!
evp	myth	noun	1	B2	an ancient story about gods and brave people, often one that explains an event in history or the natural world	ancient myths	I spent three days there thinking about myths and legends and having a lot of fun.
evp	myth	noun	2	C1	an idea that is not true but is believed by many people	Equal opportunity continues to be a myth for many.	There is this myth that when you are on vacation you should spend your whole time at the beach, practically doing nothing.
evp	nail	noun	1	B2	a thin piece of metal with a sharp end, used to join pieces of wood together	a three-inch nail	Sometimes in food given to animals by visitors you can find pieces of glass, nails or even poison.
evp	nail	noun	2	B2	the hard surface at the end of your fingers and toes	Stop biting your nails!	I do everything for my dog, such as washing him and] cutting his nail[s,] and I have to make sure he is nice and clean.
evp	naive	adjective	1	C1	If someone is naive, they believe things too easily and do not have enough experience of the world.	I was much younger then, and very naive.	It might sound a bit idealistic and naive, but I think this concept of communication will make the world a better place.
evp	naked	adjective	1	B2	not wearing clothes	a naked man	I cried out in anger and that was a mistake, because the girls turned around and looked at me, standing there naked.
evp	naked	adjective	2	C1	A naked feeling or quality is not hidden, although it is bad.	naked power/aggression/ambition	This program presents the naked truth about Brazil, this so called "Tropical Paradise."
evp	naked	adjective	3	C2	If something can be seen by the naked eye, it is big enough to be seen without special equipment.	These bugs are so tiny you cannot see them with the naked eye.	
evp	name	noun	1	A1	the word or words that a person, thing or place is known by	"Hi, what's your name?" "My name's Diane."	My friend's name is Martin.
evp	name	noun	2	B2	the reputation that someone or something has	She went to court to clear her name.	He's the only one concerned about the good name of the family.
evp	name	noun	3	C2	If bad things are done in the name of something, they are done in order to help that thing succeed.	Are you willing to work yourself to death in the name of competition?	There are things one cannot trifle with: friendship for example should not be sacrificed in the name of success.
evp	name	noun	4	C2	to become famous or respected by a lot of people	He's been trying to make a name for himself in the music business.	Secondly, only a few sportsmen and sportswomen manage to make a name for themselves and get to the top.
evp	name	noun	5	C2	to use impolite or unpleasant words to describe someone	He said the other children were calling him names.	He had never called me names or told me off.
evp	name	noun	6	C2	used to show that the name of something tells you something about it	A "suggested price" is, as the name implies, the sale price suggested by the manufacturer.	Sour Sweet, as the name implies, is originally a Chinese restaurant.
evp	name	verb	1	B1	to give someone or something a name	We named our dogs "Max" and "Lady."	She is named Maryam.
evp	name	verb	2	B1	to say what something's or someone's name is	In the first question you had to name three types of monkey.	Not only "Tandoori dishes" but all the dishes are tasty, to name some there are Chinese, North Indian, and many others.
evp	name	verb	3	B2	to choose someone or something	Just name the time and the place and I'll be there.	He has been named as the best Latin singer and he has won two Grammys.
evp	name	verb	4	C2	something that you say which means anything you say or choose	I've never seen such a wide selection. You name it, they've got it.	Courses vary from languages, management, computer-related fields to fitness, yoga, karate classes and all the different hobbies you might be interested in such as painting on silk or on wood, pottery, carving and the like. You name it, they have it at ECM.
evp	namely	adverb	1	C1	used when you are going to give more detail about something you have just said	She learned an important lesson from failing that exam, namely that nothing is ever certain.	This network is used by the four most used means of transport in our city (namely, bus, car, bicycle and motorcycle) and has been plagued by problems such as potholes, poor drainage and poor use (or lack!) of traffic signs.
evp	nap	noun	1	C1	a short sleep	He likes to take a nap after lunch.	He usually takes a nap after lunch and at night goes to bed about 10:00 p.m.
evp	napkin	noun	1	B2	a piece of cloth or paper used at meals to protect your clothes and to clean your lips or fingers	She brought paper napkins and a cake with "Happy Birthday" written on it.	Dear Tom, I received your letter and I'm going to try to answer your questions: for the wedding present, I don't think you are compelled to give them anything, but if you want to, I suggest you to offer a tablecloth and napkins, it is very useful and they will be very pleased.
evp	narrative	noun	1	C2	a story or description of a series of events	It's a moving narrative of wartime adventure.	It is a happy ending, however, only because the narrative stops at this point.
evp	narrator	noun	1	C2	the person who tells the story in a book, film, play, etc.	The narrator is a fisherman.	Leo Colston is the narrator and chief character through whose eyes we dive into the story.
evp	narrow	adjective	1	B1	Narrow things measure a small distance from one side to the other.	narrow streets	It's a charming little town with old houses and narrow streets.
evp	narrow	adjective	2	C2	limited to a small area of interest, activity or thought	He has narrow interests.	People leave home with a narrow outlook and it doesn't seem to broaden.
evp	narrow	adjective	3	C2	If you have a narrow escape, you only just avoid danger.	He had a narrow escape when a falling tree crushed his car.	Ralph will have a narrow escape: he is saved by the arrival of a ship which has at last come to rescue them all.
evp	narrow	verb	1	C1	to become less wide or to make something less wide	The road has been narrowed to one lane.	Driving as well as parking has become a difficult task in Copenhagen City as the City Council has over the last few years deliberately cut down the numbers of parking places, raised the fees and narrowed the roads and streets.
evp	narrow	verb	2	C2	to become less or to make something become less	to narrow the gap between rich and poor	I tend to believe that every country should join together, as only by discussing and sorting out some measures will we be able to narrow the gap that nowadays exists among countries all over the world.
evp	narrow	verb	3	C2	to make something, for example a list or a choice, smaller and clearer by removing the things that are less important	We've managed to narrow the list down to four.	My hobbies were narrowed down to reading books, listening to some music and that's all.
evp	narrowly	adverb	1	B2	only by a small amount	He narrowly escaped death in the accident.	They narrowly escaped crashing with the car in the]opposit lane.
evp	narrow-minded	adjective	1	C1	not willing to accept new ideas or opinions different from your own	I found some of my classmates to be narrow-minded.	He is a bit narrow-minded and at first he'll drive you crazy but once you get to know him, he'll be good company.
evp	nasty	adjective	1	B1	bad or unpleasant	a nasty shock/surprise	Inside there were three samples of a nasty purple liquid.
evp	nasty	adjective	2	B1	unkind	Don't be so nasty to your brother - he's four years younger than you!	I though that it was a nasty joke made by a friend, but the address of the sender did not match with any that I knew.
evp	nasty	adjective	3	B2	very angry or violent	When I asked for the money, he turned really nasty.	The[n] I heard a nasty voice saying ["]Bob!["]
evp	nation	noun	1	B2	a country or the people living in a country	the industrialized nations	At that time, everyone should have devoted their life to the nation.
evp	national	adjective	1	A2	relating to or typical of a whole country and its people	a national holiday	I like the music of the national anthem.
evp	nationality	noun	1	A1	If you have United States/British/Swiss, etc. nationality, you are legally a member of that country.	She is of French nationality.	My friend was born in Norway, but his nationality is Polish.
evp	nationwide	adjective	1	B2	existing or happening in all parts of a particular country	a nationwide network/chain of stores	The nationwide blackout was the first in the past decade.
evp	nationwide	adverb	1	B2	in all parts of a country	Schools nationwide are experiencing a shortage of teachers.	On Thursday, Friday or Saturday you could visit the annual festival, which is well-known nationwide for the music, costumes and dance of the local people.
evp	native	adjective	1	B2	Your native town or country is the place where you were born.	She returned to live and work in her native Japan.	You really tried to understand the far east and my native country, Japan.
evp	native	adjective	2	B2	the first language that you learn	French is his native tongue.	My native language is Russian but I speak English fluently and I have been learning Latin for two years.
evp	native	adjective	3	B2	relating to the first people to live in an area	The Aborigines are the native inhabitants of Australia.	I am very happy to tell you about my trip to the Amazon forest native inhabitants museum.
evp	native	adjective	4	C2	Native animals or plants live or grow naturally in a place, and have not been brought from somewhere else.	a large bird native to North America	
evp	native speaker	noun	1	B2	someone who has spoken a particular language since they were a baby, rather than having learned it as a child or adult	All our teachers are native speakers of English.	As I mentioned, I teach English to Japanese students, and I'd like to spend time with native speakers to improve my English.
evp	natural	adjective	1	B1	Something that is natural exists or happens because of nature, not because it was made or done by people.	natural ingredients	We have wonderful beaches full of natural beauty.
evp	natural	adjective	2	B2	normal or expected	Of course you're upset - it's only natural.	Many people think that it is natural for famous people to be followed by journalists all the time because they are famous and everybody is curious about their lives]
evp	natural	adjective	3	C1	A natural characteristic is something you were born with.	a natural talent	Also my natural talent for entertaining people together with my past experience should be very useful working at the new theme park.
evp	naturally	adverb	1	B2	as you would expect	Naturally, he was very disappointed.	Naturally we had to take his word for it.
evp	naturally	adverb	2	B2	in a normal way	Relax and try to behave naturally.	As a result they can't behave naturally at all and become sick.
evp	naturally	adverb	3	C1	happening or existing as part of nature and not made or done by people	A healthy body will be able to fight off the illness naturally without the use of medicine.	Sometimes people say women are naturally stronger than men.
evp	naturally	adverb	4	C2	having been born with a characteristic	naturally aggressive/funny/slim	Clarisse McClellan is a spontaneous and naturally curious teenager who even enjoys simple things.
evp	nature	noun	1	A2	all the plants, creatures, substances, and forces that exist in the universe, which are not made by people	her love of nature	It's a nice place to relax and enjoy nature.
evp	nature	noun	2	B2	someone's character	As a child Juliana had a lovely nature - everyone liked her.	Jane wasn't very suspicious by nature, but there was something weird in that.
evp	nature	noun	3	C1	type	What exactly is the nature of your business?	He claims that he did not improve his English because of the nature of the job.
evp	naval	adjective	1	C2	relating to the navy	a naval base/officer	It is irrefutable that naval areas are in most cases abandoned by their governments.
evp	navy	noun	1	B2	the part of a country's armed forces which is trained to operate at sea	My brother is an officer in the Navy.	Best of all, not only am I familiar with the life-style on a ship but I also know a lot of things about ships because I was in the navy.
evp	navy blue	adjective	1	B1	very dark blue	He was wearing a navy blue sweater.	I think I will buy a navy blue carpet and black and blue furniture.
evp	near	adverb	1	B1	close in distance	I was standing just near enough to hear what they were saying.	And they are getting nearer, I must run for my life.
evp	near	adverb	2	B2	close in time	Her birthday was getting nearer and I still hadn't bought her a present.	I would appreciate very much if you could reply as soon as possible, as the school holiday is drawing near.
evp	near	adjective	1	B1	close in distance	Where's the nearest post office?	When I arrived at the airport I went to the nearest store to buy a newspaper.
evp	near	adjective	2	B2	at a time that is not far away	Space travel may become very common in the near future.	I look forward to receiving your reply in the near future.
evp	near	adjective	3	C2	similar in characteristics or quality	The nearest library is in the next town.	
evp	nearby	adverb	1	B1	not far away	If there's a cafe nearby, we could stop for lunch.	We can go swimming, and visit some of the beautiful castles nearby.
evp	nearby	adjective	1	B1	not far away	We stopped at a nearby store to buy some food.	The nearby towns are lovely, very calm.
evp	nearly	adverb	1	A2	almost	It's been nearly three months since my last haircut.	It will be nearly two hours.
evp	nearly	adverb	2	C1	a lot less	It's not nearly as expensive as I thought.	However this is not nearly enough, since we are restricted when it comes to using nuclear power and there is always a constant search for other energy sources.
evp	nearsighted	adjective	1	B2	able to see clearly without glasses only things that are close up	I've always been very nearsighted and had to get glasses in fourth grade.	I couldn't see a thing, as I'm very nearsighted. I tried to find my pair of glasses but it was so dark that I couldn't see my hand in front of me.
evp	neat	adjective	1	B1	organized and clean	Your house is always so neat - how do you manage it with three children?	I always go to this restaurant because it's neat and clean.
evp	neat	adjective	2	B2	very good, fun, nice, or interesting	That video game is really neat!	Have you seen Marian recently? Does she still going out with Robert? What a neat couple they were.
evp	neatly	adverb	1	C1	in a clean and organized way	neatly dressed	The performers are all neatly dressed.
evp	necessarily	adverb	1	B2	used in negatives to mean "in every case" or "therefore"	That's not necessarily true.	The most important point in a job interview is to give a good impression, which does not necessarily mean how you look.
evp	necessary	adjective	1	B1	needed in order to achieve something	If necessary, we can change the dates of our trip.	For me, it's necessary to be modern and cool, fashionable too.
evp	necessity	noun	1	C1	the need for something	There's no financial necessity for her to work.	Therefore, the most important lesson to learn is to acknowledge the necessity of education and the struggle to make it happen.
evp	necessity	noun	2	C1	something you need	Most people seem to consider a car a necessity, not a luxury.	With development came gas-guzzling cars and motorbikes. These have become a necessity in our everyday lives.
evp	neck	noun	1	A2	the part of the body which joins the head to the shoulders	He had the thickest neck I'd ever seen.	I was really shocked when I noticed it wasn't on my neck.
evp	neck	noun	2	C1	to be annoying	My brother can be a real pain in the neck sometimes.	He's adorable although sometimes he can really be a pain in the neck (don't tell him I wrote this.)
evp	neck	noun	3	C2	the part of a piece of clothing that goes around your neck	a V-neck sweater	Pomona was so pretty, with her short blue and white dress, her bow on the neck and her hat.
evp	neck	noun	4	C2	If two people who are competing are neck and neck, they are very close and either of them could win.	The two runners were neck and neck coming into the last lap.	It was a really neck and neck match that took my breath away every second.
evp	necklace	noun	1	A2	a piece of jewelry that you wear around your neck	a gold/silver necklace	Dear Elaine, The party was wonderful and I got the necklace which I wanted so much.
evp	necktie	noun	1	C2	a long, thin tie worn around the neck, under a shirt collar	He wore a gray suit, with a white shirt, black and gray necktie, and silver cuff links.	Also many men frequent stores in order to buy better clothing, suits, shoes, neckties, to have a better presentation at the places were they go with frequency or for business.
evp	need	verb	1	A1	If you need something, you must have it.	I need some new shoes.	When you need help, everyone gives you help.
evp	need	verb	2	A1	If you need to do something, it is necessary to do it.	I need to do some shopping on my way home from work.	I need to learn Engl[i]sh.
evp	need	verb	3	A2	used in order to say that someone does not have to do something or should not do something	I can get there myself so you don't need to take me.	You don't need to bring anything, but if you want, you can bring some pencils.
evp	need	verb	4	B1	If something needs something to be done to it, that thing should be done in order to improve it.	The car needs to be serviced.	It is so beautiful but it needs washing all the time.
evp	need	verb	5	C2	used to say that something is necessary	There needs to be more funding for education in this country.	Secondly, there needs to be a proper choice of subjects taught, because what we should get in the end is a versatile person, not just some math or literature freak who is not interested in anything else.
evp	need	noun	1	B2	something that is necessary to have or do	There's a growing need for affordable housing in the larger cities.	In conclusion, I believe that human beings will always have the need for knowledge and entertainment at the same time.
evp	need	noun	2	B2	If there is no need to do something or no need for something, it is not necessary or it is wrong.	There's no need to go to the store - there's plenty of food in the refrigerator.	He told me that I could trust him with the ticket and that there was no need for me to take it home.
evp	need	noun	3	B2	to need something	My car's in desperate need of repair.	He is also constantly in need of money.
evp	need	noun	4	B2	the things you need in order to have a good life	her emotional needs	I love swimming and cycling and that is why I want to ask if there are any facilities that could suit my needs?
evp	need	noun	5	C2	if it is necessary	If need
be, we can take two cars.	On the one hand I won't indulge my children's whims and I will lecture them or punish them if need be.
evp	needle	noun	1	B2	a thin, pointed metal object with a small hole at one end for thread, used in sewing	a needle and thread	It was impossible for me to open the door, it was like thread]in a needle with gloves on]
evp	needle	noun	2	C2	the thin, sharp, metal part of a piece of medical equipment used to take blood out of the body or to put a liquid or medicine in	He fainted at the sight of the needle.	Nevertheless, for all the side effects they may have, for all the unpleasantness of having a needle stuck in your arm or a spoonful of foul-tasting liquid stuck in your mouth, antibiotics and vaccines remain the greatest discovery in the history of the world.
evp	needle	noun	3	C2	to push thread through the hole in a needle	Could you thread this needle for me, please?	
evp	negative	adjective	1	A2	A negative sentence or phrase is one which contains a word such as "not," 'no," "never" or "nothing."	"I've never seen him in my life" is a negative sentence.	
evp	negative	adjective	2	B1	not having enthusiasm or positive opinions about something	negative
feelings	At the same time there were no negative opinions about the service from the visitors to "Fine food".
evp	negative	adjective	3	B2	A negative effect is bad and causes damage to something.	Transportation problems have had a very negative effect/impact on tourism.	Even if it provides a lot of advantages, this revolution in the world of communication also has a negative impact on our society.
evp	negative	adjective	4	B2	expressing the answer no	We received a negative answer to our request.	Museums are the best example to show how life was in the past but when you ask teenagers whether they have been in a museum you will get a negative answer.
evp	negatively	adverb	1	B2	with a bad effect	They were very negatively affected by the changes.	We neither walk nor do exercises and it influences our health negatively.
evp	neglect	verb	1	C1	to not give enough care or attention to something or someone	to neglect your appearance	So people, use what technology has to offer you but don't neglect the person next to you.
evp	neglect	verb	2	C2	to not do something, often intentionally	He neglected to mention the fact that we could lose money on the deal.	Our colleagues at the museum apparently neglected to notify us.
evp	neglect	noun	1	C1	when you do not give enough care or attention to something or someone	to suffer years of neglect	First of all, concerning the bus]es all I can say is that they were in a complete state of neglect.
evp	negligence	noun	1	C2	when you are not careful enough in something you do, especially in a job where your actions affect other people	Her parents plan to sue the surgeon for medical negligence.	Despite this situation of state negligence, bad laws and scarce funding, sports have managed to survive the harsh years of transition and most importantly people have not lost their interest in sports.
evp	negligent	adjective	1	C2	not giving enough care or attention to a job or activity, especially where your actions affect someone else	The report found him negligent in his duties.	According to the research, a lot of people find it more difficult to go back to work after the holidays and tend to be more lax and negligent at work for the first few days.
evp	negligible	adjective	1	C2	small and not important	a negligible effect/result	The damage that the developing world is causing to the environment is almost negligible compared to the damage caused by the industrialised world.
evp	negotiate	verb	1	C1	to try to make or change an agreement by discussion	to negotiate with employers about working conditions	You should also negotiate the best terms for our client.
evp	negotiation	noun	1	C1	when people try to make or change an agreement by discussion	Peace negotiations are due to start.	Therefore, I would like to propose a meeting that can be arranged in the next week so that we may continue this negotiation.
evp	neighbor	noun	1	A2	someone who lives very near you, especially in the next house	Some of the neighbors complained about the noise from our party.	I thought that someone stole my ball. I think it was my neighbor.
evp	neighbor	noun	2	B2	someone or something that is near or next to someone or something else	The French make more films than some of their European neighbors.	[M]y freedom should stop where the freedom of my neighbor begins.
evp	neighborhood	noun	1	B1	an area of a town or city that people live in	There were lots of kids in my neighborhood when I was growing up.	And then I saw Sibylle, a girl who lived in my neighborhood a few years ago.
evp	neighboring	adjective	1	B2	near or next to somewhere	neighboring countries/states	It is incredible that my son has to commute to the neighboring town just to get a few books to read.
evp	neither	adverb	1	B2	used to say that a negative fact is also true of someone or something else	Jerry doesn't like it, and neither do I.	Of course, she never thought those would be the lucky numbers and neither did her husband, so he forgot to ask her about the ticket later.
evp	nephew	noun	1	B1	a son of your sister or brother, or a son of the sister or brother of your husband or wife	My nephew is 21 today.	I went with my husband, my two sisters and some nieces and nephews.
evp	nerves	noun	1	B2	the state of being nervous	I always suffer from nerves before a game.	I had to calm my nerves.
evp	nerves	noun	2	B2	the ability to be calm in difficult situations	You need a cool head and steady nerves for this job.	I know very well you have steady nerves but what is strong can become weak as well.
evp	nerves	noun	3	B2	to annoy someone, especially by doing something again and again	If we spend too much time together, we end up getting on each other's nerves.	I would definitely avoid driving (which would soon get on my nerves) and choose to go by bicycle, singing in the sun and in the rain.
evp	nervous	adjective	1	B1	worried or anxious	He gets very nervous before exams.	I'm a little nervous because of that.
evp	nervously	adverb	1	B2	in a worried and anxious way	to giggle/laugh nervously	As always the girls sat down in the fifth row and waited nervously for the event to begin.
evp	nervousness	noun	1	C1	the state of being nervous	Her nervousness was obvious when she spoke.	Remember, by and large, failures are sparked off by nervousness.
evp	nest	noun	1	C2	a home built by birds for their eggs and by some other creatures to live in	a birds'/wasps' nest	The very rare 'Cove Owl' has chosen one of the empty tree trunks by the pond to build his nest.
evp	nest	noun	2	C2	a sum of money that has been saved or kept for a specific purpose	She used her nest egg to buy a really good piano.	She was the only heir of a rich family and her husband, who died ten years ago, left her a sizeable nest egg.
evp	nest	verb	1	C2	to live in a nest or build a nest	There are birds nesting under the roof.	If you stroll along the path on a Sunday morning, you can see robins nesting in the old honeysuckle bush.
evp	network	noun	1	B2	a system or group of connected parts	a road/rail network	Switzerland is a safe, small and beautiful country that is perfect to travel in] because of the best public transportation network in the world.
evp	network	noun	2	B2	a set of computers that are connected to each other	All our offices are on the same network.	Moreover, with a computer network, it can be possible for people to work from home, making projects, controlling operations or having conferences.
evp	networking	noun	1	C1	the activity of meeting and contacting people who might be useful to know, especially for your job	Students find networking essential to finding the right job.	I am sure there are many other benefits working can bring to us, apart from the enjoyment, networking, etc. that I have mentioned above, and of course the money it makes.
evp	neutral	adjective	1	C1	independent and not supporting any side in an argument, fight, or competition	neutral ground/territory	Thus, its main advantage is that the information you get is not provided by a company or something like that but by a neutral person.
evp	neutral	adjective	2	C1	Neutral colors are not strong or bright.	Try neutral creams and grays.	Throughout the house the carpets are brand new and lovely neutral colors.
evp	never	adverb	1	A1	not ever, not one time	We've never been to Australia.	I never have enough time to do it.
evp	never	adverb	2	A2	used to tell someone not to worry about something because it is not important	"I'm afraid I've lost that wallet you gave me." "Well, never mind, I can easily buy you another one."	Never mind Ally, forget it, I know you['ve] been busy.
evp	never	adverb	3	B2	used to emphasize something negative	I never knew you lived around here.	I never knew what happened after I left.
evp	never-ending	adjective	1	C1	If something is never-ending, it continues for ever.	The housework in this place is just never-ending.	We are often forced to study till about thirty years of age, and it really appears to be a never-ending story.
evp	nevertheless	adverb	1	B2	despite that	I knew a lot about the subject already, but her talk was interesting nevertheless.	Both the options you gave seem very interesting. Nevertheless, I get the impression that working with animals is much more fun, don't you think?
evp	new	adjective	1	A1	recently made or having started to exist recently	a new car	We spoke a]bou new clothes and new fashion.
evp	new	adjective	2	A1	not known or discovered before	I love learning new languages.	Every day at college I learn new words and new things in my life.
evp	new	adjective	3	A1	different from before	I met Janet's new boyfriend.	In the disco I can meet more new people.
evp	new	adjective	4	B1	not yet familiar or experienced	I'm new to the area.	I met a guy called Marc who is pretty cool. He is also new to the club.
evp	new	adjective	5	C1	new people in an organization who will provide new ideas and energy	We need some new blood in the organization.	Regardless of the age limit many companies encourage employees in high positions to retire after 55 as they want some new blood or probably a new look for the company.
evp	new	adjective	6	C2	to start to behave in a better way	I turned over a new leaf and began getting to work on time.	She promised to turn over a new leaf.
evp	newly	adverb	1	B2	recently	the newly formed neighborhood association	Ricardo has newly arrived here from Argentina.
evp	news	noun	1	A2	new information	I've got some good/bad news for you.	Write soon, I'm waiting for good news from you too!
evp	news	noun	2	B1	the announcement of important events on television, radio, and in newspapers	It was on the 6 o'clock news.	It'll be shown next Thursday, just after the news.
evp	news	noun	3	C1	to affect someone badly/well	This weather is bad news for farmers.	Focusing now on Kavanagh Catering Services, it could be said that for them price is the main variable - obviously this is good news for students.
evp	news	noun	4	C2	to be a surprise to someone	He's leaving? Really? That's news to me.	
evp	news	noun	5	C2	to tell someone about something new or important	When they broke the news of their engagement, their parents were was delighted.	It wasn't hard to understand why she was filled with delight and happiness when her manager broke the news. The company was opening a new branch in Miami and they wanted her to become the director there.
evp	newsletter	noun	1	C1	a regular report with information for people who belong to an organization or who are interested in a particular subject	a monthly newsletter about business and the environment	And if you decide to use our newsletter service, you'll always be up-to-date.
evp	newspaper	noun	1	A1	large, folded sheets of paper which are printed with the news and sold every day or every week	She never reads a newspaper.	He gets up every day at 6 o'clock, has breakfast and reads the newspaper.
evp	newspaper	noun	2	A2	paper from newspapers	You'd better wrap that mirror up in newspaper before you put it in the car.	You should wear your old clothes and please bring some old newspaper.
evp	next-door	adjective	1	B1	in the next room, house, or building	What are your next-door neighbors like?	We visited the same boarding school and have been classmates since Grade 7. The last two years, she was my next door neighbor.
evp	next door	adverb	1	B1	in the next room, house, or building	That's the old man who lives next door to Paul.	Maria didn't understand, but then she realized that the man she was looking for lived next door.
evp	nice	adjective	1	A1	pleasant or attractive	Did you have a nice holiday?	But you can make me a nice dinner.
evp	nice	adjective	2	A1	kind and friendly	He's a really nice guy.	My teacher is very nice.
evp	nice	adjective	3	B1	used to emphasize a positive quality	nice and clean	Anyway, I think I'm in a good class and also my home is nice and comfortable.
evp	nicely	adverb	1	B2	well	That table would fit nicely in the bedroom.	It is a pleasant, easy book with useful, active vocabulary and short, nicely constructed sentences.
evp	nicely	adverb	2	B2	in a pleasant way	She's always very nicely dressed.	All the rooms are big, clean and nicely decorated.
evp	nickname	noun	1	B1	a name used informally instead of your real name	Do you have a nickname?	I heard about the club from a friend, so I joined it immediately (I like science fiction films a lot) and I took a strange member "card": in fact it is a blue sphere with my name, my nickname ("The Sleeping Dragon") and my favorite character's image from the film (Neo) on it.
evp	nickname	noun	1	C1	a name used informally instead of your real name	Sonny is his nickname - his real name is Joseph.	In school I had the nickname the Joker, because I had the ability to make other people laugh.
evp	niece	noun	1	B1	a daughter of your brother or sister, or a daughter of your husband's or wife's brother or sister	We're taking my niece on vacation with us.	I bought a purple sweater and I want to knit one like mine for my niece.
evp	night	noun	1	A1	the time in every 24 hours when it is dark and people usually sleep	It gets cold at night.	Cracov is an interesing place and looks nice at night.
evp	night	noun	2	A1	the period from the evening to the time when you go to sleep	We're seeing them on Saturday night.	You can go to the disco and dance all night.
evp	night	noun	3	C1	a night when you are not able to sleep	He'd spent a sleepless night worrying about his exam.	Most of the rooms we stayed in did not have air-condition[ing], which caused many sleepless nights to the majority of us due to the intense heat.
evp	nightclub	noun	1	B1	a place where you can dance and drink at night	We had a meal and then went to a nightclub.	We asked them if they wanted to come with us to a new nightclub, they agreed and we went to Club Pasha.
evp	nightlife	noun	1	B1	entertainment for the night such as bars, clubs, restaurants, and theaters	What's the nightlife like around here?	The nightlife in my country is wonderful!
evp	nightmare	noun	1	B1	a very unpleasant experience	Being trapped underwater is my worst nightmare.	When I must buy something, I usually can't find it and then shopping becomes a nightmare.
evp	nightmare	noun	2	B1	a frightening dream	a terrifying nightmare	Every night I had a nightmare.
evp	nine	noun	1	A1	the number 9	a nine-month prison sentence	I start college at half past nine.
evp	nine	noun	2	C2	to be extremely happy and excited	When I heard I got the job, I was on cloud nine!	But now, after the promise in which both said "yes," she was on cloud nine.
evp	nineteen	noun	1	A1	the number 19	eighteen, nineteen, twenty	I had a birthday party in my house when I became nineteen.
evp	ninety	noun	1	A2	the number 90	eighty, ninety, a hundred	Friday is the art class day. It is in ninety minutes.
evp	ninety	noun	2	B2	to be aged between 90 and 99	He is in his nineties now.	
evp	ninety	noun	3	B2	the years 1990 through 1999	I spent most of the nineties traveling around the world.	Another aspect which shows us the danger that the car represents to human life in the nineties is pollution.
evp	no	adverb	1	A1	something that you say in order to disagree, give a negative answer, or say that something is not true	"You told me." "No, I didn't!"	I was in the office last week, but she said: "No!"
evp	no	adverb	2	A2	something that you say to agree with something that is negative	"He's not very bright, is he?" "No, I'm afraid not."	
evp	no	adverb	3	A2	used to refuse an offer politely	"Would you like a drink?" "No thanks, I've just had one."	
evp	no	adverb	4	A2	something that you say when you are shocked and upset	Oh no! It's gone all over the carpet!	Oh no!
evp	no	adverb	5	B1	not any	The work should be done no later than Friday.	In no more than ten lines, my mother explained that she was moving to Brazilia, the capital of our country, and that she would take me and my brother with her.
evp	noble	adjective	1	C1	honest, brave, and kind	a noble gesture	Charity is a very noble way of spending your money and it is definitely a way in which you would want to be remembered.
evp	noble	adjective	2	C1	belonging to the highest social group of a society	She was born into an ancient, noble family.	Capodistrias, coming from a noble family of the Ionian islands played, as a diplomat and mainly as Russia's Foreign Minister, an important role to the new European structure after the destruction of Napoleon's Empire (1814).
evp	nod	verb	1	B2	to move your head up and down as a way of agreeing, to give someone a sign, or to point to something	Many people in the audience nodded in agreement.	She approached him calmly, showing no signs of nervousness or uncertainty. "Do you have it?" He nodded and shoved his hand into the left pocket of his jacket.
evp	noise	noun	1	A1	a sound, often a loud, unpleasant sound	The noise out in the street was deafening.	In college I don't like too much noise.
evp	noisy	adjective	1	A2	making a lot of noise	a noisy crowd of fans	I don't remember who was there... it was very busy and noisy!
evp	nominate	verb	1	C1	to officially suggest a person for a job or a position in an organization, or to suggest a person or their work for a prize	Judges are nominated by the governor.	Being an Ambassador for Youth bears a lot of responsibility, not only because the person must be of outstanding character and well-known, but also because they must behave accordingly and be able to convey a positive message. After deep consideration, I have decided to nominate Jovanotti, alias Lorenzo Cherubini.
evp	nomination	noun	1	C1	the act of officially suggesting a person for a job or their work for a prize	to seek/win a nomination	Please allow me to support this nomination by pointing out some facts.
evp	nonetheless	adverb	1	C1	despite what has just been said	He was extremely rude in meetings. Nonetheless, his arguments found some support.	Nonetheless, all the people from whom I have received letters are satisfied, as well as their children, who enjoyed the stories and the pony rides very much.
evp	nonexistent	adjective	1	C1	not existing	Crime is virtually nonexistent around here.	The country's economy is nonexistent, its main source of income being black market distribution of the foreign aid and gradual confiscation of the property of the few foreign companies left in the country.
evp	nonsense	noun	1	B2	If something someone has said or written is nonsense, it is silly and not true.	She talks such nonsense sometimes.	I feel totally disappointed and I would like my money back, because everything i] the advertisement was nonsense.
evp	non-smoking	adjective	1	B2	describes a place where people are not allowed to smoke	Let's get a table in the non-smoking area.	You can also choose between a smoking and a non-smoking area.
evp	noon	noun	1	A2	12 o'clock in the middle of the day	He has until noon to act.	I'll start at 12 noon and remember to wear an apron.
evp	normal	adjective	1	A2	usual, ordinary, and expected	a normal working day	We will wear normal and comfortable clothes while painting.
evp	normal	adjective	2	C1	to go back to the usual condition	Life has begun to return to normal now that the holidays are over.	After exactly ten minutes the electricity was switched on again and our life returned to normal - what a relief!
evp	normality	noun	1	C2	a situation in which everything is happening normally	a return to normality	We become self-oriented and disregard those unable to fit in our perception of normality.
evp	normally	adverb	1	B1	usually	She doesn't normally arrive until ten.	I normally order fried fish.
evp	normally	adverb	2	B2	in the ordinary way that you would expect	Both lungs are now functioning normally.	But the truth is that those animals are not behaving normally.
evp	north	noun	1	A2	the direction that is on your left when you face toward the rising sun	The points of the compass are North, South, East and West.	You can get there going on the road to the north of my town.
evp	north	noun	2	A2	the part of an area that is further towards the north than the rest	They live in the north of the country.	I'm in Santander, in the north of Spain.
evp	north	adjective	1	A2	in or forming the north part of something	North America/Africa	It was about a team who went to visit North America.
evp	north	adverb	1	A2	toward the north	The road leads north.	From that beach, we continued north and visited other small beaches.
evp	northeast	noun	1	B1	the direction which is between north and east or the northeast part of a country	They live in the northeast.	The owner is from the northeast of China.
evp	northeast	adjective	1	B1	in the northeast, or facing toward the northeast	I don't really know the northeast part of the country.	You should visit the Northeast Region which is famous for its white sandy beaches which are fringed with coconut trees.
evp	northern	adjective	1	B1	in or from the north part of an area	northern Europe	Last Summer I went to Chiang Mai, in northern Thailand with my family.
evp	northwest	noun	1	B1	the direction which is between north and west or the northwest part of a country	The wind is coming from the northwest.	
evp	northwest	adjective	1	B1	in the northwest, or facing toward the northwest	We climbed the northwest face of the mountain.	My cousin lives in the northwest part of London and so I took the underground to central London every day.
evp	nose	noun	1	A1	the part of your face through which you breathe and smell	a big nose	It has a small nose, two big eyes, and wears a dress.
evp	nose	noun	2	C2	to show too much interest in a situation that does not involve you	You shouldn't go sticking your nose into other people's business!	John started poking his nose into her life.
evp	nose	noun	3	C2	to not accept something because you do not think it is good enough for you	She turned up her nose at the job because she didn’t think it had enough status.	Moreover, she will not turn her nose up at anybody who might be considered less worthy than her.
evp	nose	noun	4	C2	If something bad happens under your nose, it happens close to you but you do not notice it.	They were stealing money from under my nose.	You will be surprised that there was something right under your nose that you could not live without.
evp	nostalgia	noun	1	C2	a feeling of happiness mixed with sadness when you think about things that happened in the past	his nostalgia for his college days	He combines the strings with the brass instruments in a way that creates the feeling of nostalgia; nostalgia for the days and time I used to spend with my father.
evp	nostalgic	adjective	1	C2	feeling both happy and sad when you think about things that happened in the past	Talking about those holidays has made me feel quite nostalgic.	While listening to what people interviewed were saying, I couldn't help feeling a bit sad in a nostalgic way.
evp	nostril	noun	1	C2	one of the two holes at the end of your nose	Breathe in through one nostril.	When he finally reached the house and managed to open the door, a musty stench assaulted his nostrils.
evp	nosy	adjective	1	C2	always trying to find out private things about other people	I was a nosy kid.	She was known as being a nosy and mysterious lady.
evp	not	adverb	1	A1	used to form a negative phrase after verbs like "be," "can," "have," "'will," "must," etc., usually used in the short form "n't" in speech	He's not fat!	It's not a problem for me.
evp	not	adverb	2	A1	used to give the next word or group of words a negative meaning	I told you not to do that.	You know I go to college but not every day.
evp	not	adverb	3	A2	used after verbs like "be afraid," "hope," "suspect," etc. in short, negative replies	"Is he coming with us?" "I hope not."	
evp	not	adverb	4	A2	used to express the possibility that something might not happen	Are you going to reply or not?	Are you busy or not that day?
evp	not	adverb	5	A2	used to say what the situation will be if something does not happen	I hope to see you there but, if not, I'll call you.	I'm going to paint my bedroom with the pink paint. Remember to put on your old clothes. If not, your clothes will become pinky and you can't use them anymore.
evp	not	adverb	6	A2	used before adjectives and adverbs to mean "not very"	"How was your exam?" "Not too bad, I suppose."	How are you? [I'm] not too bad.
evp	not	adverb	7	A2	satisfactory	That's not bad for such a small company.	The presents are not bad.
evp	not	adverb	8	B1	used to form questions when you think the answer will be "yes," using the short form "n't"	She's very pretty, isn't she?	I know that you love horror movies, don't you?
evp	not	adverb	9	B1	used as a polite reply after someone has thanked you	"Thanks for helping." "Not at all."	["]Thank you.["] ["]Not at all[."]
evp	not	adverb	10	B1	used to say that something is true although it seems surprising	He even remembered my birthday, believe it or not.	First I visited the "Roman Bath'' which is more than 2000 years old and, believe it or not, it still works!
evp	not	adverb	11	B1	used to emphasize the fact that something does not happen or is not true	"I never cry." "Not even when you hurt yourself really badly?"	We tried to fish, but didn't catch a thing, not even a shoe!
evp	not	adverb	12	B2	used to say "no" or "not" strongly	"Was he a nuisance?" "No, not at all."	I sensed that invisible hand was touching my shoulder, but it didn't scare me, not at all.
evp	not	adverb	13	B2	used to say that more than one thing is true	Not only was the hotel expensive, it was dirty too.	In this show, not only can we see the latest fashions, sportswear, make-up and hairstyles, but we can also enter for free.
evp	not	adverb	14	B2	to be much less good/bad/exciting, etc. than something else	Her new book's not half as good as the last one.	Probably they wouldn't be half as famous as they are without press photographers, journalists, etc.
evp	not	adverb	15	B2	used to emphasize the importance of something that you are adding to a list	The resort has great hotels and restaurants, not to mention some of the best skiing in the region.	She got a kitten, she hated cats[,] not to mention the fact that she was allergic to them.
evp	not	adverb	16	B2	almost but not completely	I'm not quite sure if I understand this.	The student cafe has a welcoming atmosphere and most people said it was nice to sit and to drink coffee there] [T]he only problem is that there are not quite enough tables and chairs for everyone at busy times.
evp	not	adverb	17	C1	used to emphasize that there is nothing of what you are talking about	Not one person came to hear him talk.	Nowadays, I can only see buildings and roads. Not one single tree to refresh yourself from the hot and tropical sun at midday.
evp	not	adverb	18	C1	used to emphasize that something is not true or will not happen, or to say "no"	"She's not exactly poor, is she?" "Certainly not."	That's nice, but do you think that money is all that matters? Definitely not!
evp	not	adverb	19	C2	especially	The whole trip was fascinating, not least because of the people I met.	We are all human beings but we are all different, not least because of a different cultural background.
evp	not	adverb	20	C2	not at all	I don't mind staying at home, not in the least.	Educating two children was not so easy a task, not in the least!
evp	not	adverb	21	C2	used to emphasize a quality	The senator was nothing if not honest.	Well, I might be a bit biased but really, he is nothing if not extraordinary.
evp	not	adverb	22	C2	to not have any sleep	I was so excited last night - I didn't sleep a wink.	Nevertheless, due to the fact that I hadn't slept a wink the previous night, I began to fall asleep.
evp	notable	adjective	1	C1	important or interesting	With one notable exception, everyone replied to my letter.	A notable exception is the advertising of so-called "slow-food" restaurants, which promote a healthy lifestyle.
evp	notably	adverb	1	C1	especially or most importantly	They have begun attracting investors, most notably big Japanese financial houses.	As I have already indicated, the content (what they teach you) is very good, notably the training of speaking skills and a number of special courses, for example: How to Negotiate.
evp	note	noun	1	A1	a short letter	He left a note to say he would be home late.	Hi Rie Thank you for your note to me!
evp	note	noun	2	A2	information that is written down to help you study, or to help you remember something you are going to write about	The journalist took notes throughout the interview.	You have to bring with you a pencil, some chalk and a big notebook to take some notes and to draw in.
evp	note	noun	3	B2	a short explanation or an extra piece of information that is given at the bottom of a page or at the back of a book	See note 3, page 37.	
evp	note	noun	4	C1	to write down information about something	Let me make a note of your phone number.	After talking to other members, I have made a note of the main problems they considered the most urgent to be solved.
evp	note	noun	5	C1	If two people compare notes, they tell each other what they think about something that they have both done.	We compared notes about our experiences in China.	In conclusion, regular meetings between parents and school teachers [...] help both parties to compare notes, acting in the best interests of the children.
evp	note	noun	6	C1	to notice or pay careful attention to something	Please note that we will be closed on Saturday.	I thank you for taking note of my view.
evp	note	noun	7	C1	a particular feeling or mood	a sad/serious/positive note	On a more practical note: I found the information pack I received beforehand insufficient.
evp	note	noun	8	C2	a single musical sound or the symbol that represents it	Her soprano voice intoned the low, first notes of the song.	It was as if an external force was stopping him from playing the notes.
evp	note	noun	9	C2	someone or something famous or important	There was nothing of note in the report.	
evp	note	verb	1	B1	to notice something	They noted the consumers' growing demand for quicker service.	Please note that I am available for an interview.
evp	note	verb	2	B2	to write something so that you do not forget it	I noted down their web address.	There were a couple of things I noted down during the show.
evp	notebook	noun	1	A2	a book with empty pages that you can write in	She was writing things down in a little notebook.	We have to bring our pencils, rulers, notebooks and books with us.
evp	notice	verb	1	B1	to see something and be aware of it	I noticed a crack in the ceiling.	Suddenly I noticed that I had lost the chain which Luke had bought me for my birthday.
evp	notice	noun	1	A2	a sign giving information about something	There was a large notice on the wall saying "No Parking."	Nick - I've seen the notice about the concert.
evp	notice	noun	2	B1	a warning that something will happen	The next time you visit, can you give me more notice?	I apologize for the short notice.
evp	notice	noun	3	B1	attention	I didn't take any notice of his advice.	I didn't take notice of it and deleted it again.
evp	notice	noun	4	C1	only a short time before something happens	I had to give a speech on very short notice.	If required, I could additionally find time on week nights, however due to my professional duties I may have to cancel on short notice.
evp	notice	noun	5	C2	an official statement saying you are leaving your job or telling you your job has ended	I'm giving my notice on Friday.	
evp	noticeable	adjective	1	C1	easy to see or be aware of	There was a noticeable difference in his behavior after the injury.	What was noticeable all over Warsaw were the overfilled garbage cans and litter in the streets that nobody cleaned up.
evp	noticeably	adverb	1	C1	in a way that is noticeable	He was noticeably reluctant to meet her.	The teachers' salaries are noticeably the largest part in the charts.
evp	notify	verb	1	C1	to officially tell someone about something	You should notify the police if you are involved in a traffic accident.	You must notify the director if you are not going to sleep in your room.
evp	notion	noun	1	C1	an idea or belief	The notion of sharing is unknown to most two-year-olds.	Unfortunately, in ancient Greece, although the notion of the republic and democracy were invented and quite successfully developed there, not being a noble citizen could be cruelly disappointing and painful.
evp	notorious	adjective	1	C1	famous for something bad	a notorious criminal	Apart from this, Bristol is notorious for its poor social policy for the people who are o] the poverty line.
evp	notwithstanding	adverb	1	C1	despite	Injuries notwithstanding, he won the semi-final match.	Notwithstanding this zealous kind of complaint, it would appear to me that they had great fun during the third day when after the English lesson they went to the swimming pool.
evp	noun	noun	1	A2	a word that refers to a person, place, thing, event, substance or quality	'Doctor', 'tree', 'party', 'coal' and 'beauty' are all nouns.	
evp	novel	noun	1	B1	a book that tells a story about imaginary people and events	historical/romantic novels	Yesterday I was sat on the bench under a tree in that wonderful garden and I was reading an interesting novel by Jane Austen, when a charming young boy came near to me.
evp	novelist	noun	1	B2	a person who writes novels	His father was a novelist.	My teacher has told me that you are a British novelist who writes crime stories, and you have come to live in our area.
evp	novelty	noun	1	C2	the quality of being new or unusual	The fashion industry relies on novelty, and photographers are always looking for new faces.	Olivia's story takes place in a romantic atmosphere, which may allow the reader to look upon the colonial period as a dream; it sounds like a legend, a fairy tale, which fulfills an important purpose of novels: the appeal of novelty.
evp	novelty	noun	2	C2	an object, event, or experience that is new or unusual	Tourists are still a novelty on this remote island.	Our city needed a novelty like this and fortunately the dream came true!
evp	November	noun	1	A1	the eleventh month of the year, after October and before December	5(th) of November/November 5(th)	I have an exam on 22nd of November 2006.
evp	now	adverb	1	A1	at the present time	I'm used to it now.	I am now vegetarian!
evp	now	adverb	2	A2	immediately	We're going home now.	Please, buy it right now.
evp	now	adverb	3	A2	a very short time ago	When I came in just now, everyone was laughing.	I was watching a badminton competition just now.
evp	now	adverb	4	B2	used to show the length of time that something has been happening, from the time it began until the present	I've lived in Cambridge for two years now.	
evp	now	adverb	5	B2	used to say that something will happen very soon	We're expecting our second child any day now.	The evil creatures who were bound to come out of the dark w]oul see Carla any minute now.
evp	now	adverb	6	B2	If something happens now and then, it happens sometimes but not very often.	I love chocolate, but I only eat it now and then.	If you really love to have a snack now and then, try to eat fruit and vegetables, instead of sweets.
evp	now	adverb	7	C1	sometimes, but not often	We still get together for lunch every now and then.	Each day choose 10 new words and learn them by heart. In a week you will have learned 70 new words, and in a year 3640, a lot of words. Please, do not forget to repeat them every now and then.
evp	nowadays	adverb	1	B1	at the present time, especially when compared to the past	Everything seems more expensive nowadays.	Well, nowadays I hardly ever watch television, as time is something that I really don't have enough of]
evp	nowhere	adverb	1	B1	not anywhere	The room was very crowded - there was nowhere to sit.	I was looking for it nearly everywhere, but it was nowhere!
evp	nowhere	adverb	2	B2	a long way from places where people live	His car broke down in the middle of nowhere.	You know I really don't want to get lost in the middle of nowhere.
evp	nowhere	adverb	3	B2	If someone or something appears out of nowhere, it appears suddenly or unexpectedly.	The car came out of nowhere and we had to swerve to miss it.	I was lying all alone on the beach, then suddenly, out of nowhere, right behind me those strange creatures appeared.
evp	nowhere	adverb	4	C2	If something gets you nowhere, it does not help you to succeed.	Bad manners will get you nowhere.	As this is a loophole in the law system, it's creating a conflict between house-owners and squatters and getting them nowhere.
evp	nuclear	adjective	1	B2	relating to the energy that is released when the nucleus of an atom is divided	nuclear energy/power	He said that he was a nuclear scientist and we had met before.
evp	nuclear	adjective	2	B2	relating to weapons that use nuclear power	a nuclear war/attack	I think that the car isn't the greatest danger to human life today, because I believe the greatest danger is the nuclear bomb.
evp	nuisance	noun	1	B2	a person, thing, or situation that annoys you or causes problems for you	I've forgotten my umbrella - what a nuisance!	[T]here are usually so many cars in cities that it is a nuisance to use them when you have to drive a short distance.
evp	number	noun	1	A1	a symbol or word used in a counting system or used to show the position or order of something	Think of a number smaller than 100.	I chose the black one with the numbers in orange.
evp	number	noun	2	A1	a telephone number	Do you know his phone number?	Call me before, and tell me what you like to eat? [Here]'s my new number 07782472751.
evp	number	noun	3	A1	a group of numbers that represents something	Please write your credit card number on this form.	You can take bus number 87, 77 or 156 and after 10 minutes get off next to the post office and library and walk 2 minutes.
evp	number	noun	4	B1	an amount	The number of people killed in road accidents fell last month.	We are a well-mixed class with equal numbers of boys and girls, all about 20 years old.
evp	number	noun	5	B2	several	There were a number of journalists at the meeting.	There are a number of errors in your article.
evp	number	verb	1	C1	to give something a number	Each volume was numbered and indexed.	The bus to Finspang is numbered 410 and there is at least one bus departing for Finspang every hour.
evp	number	verb	2	C2	If people or things number a particular amount, there are that many of them.	Our company's sales force numbered over 5,000.	They marched against Barovia with armies that numbered hundreds of thousands.
evp	numerous	adjective	1	C1	many	We have discussed these plans on numerous occasions.	The fact that my country produces numerous talented skaters is also a factor that helps me enjoy skating.
evp	nurse	noun	1	A2	someone whose job is to care for sick and injured people	He worked as a nurse in a psychiatric hospital.	I want to be a nurse.
evp	nurse	verb	1	C2	to care for a person or animal that is ill	We nursed the injured sparrow back to health.	Second, there are more and more old people who need to be looked after or nursed.
evp	nursery	noun	1	B2	a place where young children and babies are taken care of while their parents are at work	Does Jake go to a nursery or a baby-sitter?	I enjoy working with children because I was working in a nursery.
evp	nut	noun	1	B2	the dry fruit of some trees which grows in a hard shell, and can often be eaten	a Brazil/cashew nut	Finally I would like to inform you that one of our students has an allergy to all sorts of nuts.
evp	nutrition	noun	1	C1	the food that you eat and the way that it affects your health	Good nutrition is essential for growing children.	So, good exercise combined with the right nutrition (low fat, vegetables etc.) will alter our lives and help us feel and appear more relaxed.
evp	nutritional	adjective	1	C1	relating to the food that you eat and the way it affects your health	These snacks have very little nutritional value.	Today, individuals have less time to prepare homemade food with high nutritional value.
evp	nutritious	adjective	1	C1	Nutritious food contains substances that your body needs to stay healthy.	a nutritious meal	They seem to have discovered that salads and pasta can be as tasty and nutritious as red meat.
evp	oak	noun	1	B2	a large tree found in northern countries, or the wood of this tree	an oak table	There is a very old oak in the middle of the garden.
evp	obese	adjective	1	C1	extremely fat	Currently, 15% of the population are classified as obese.	Less physical activity and a poor diet can lead to being overweight or even obese.
evp	obesity	noun	1	C1	the state of being extremely fat	The government is concerned about childhood obesity.	Many researchers say that obesity and other adult diseases are getting common as we eat more western food.
evp	obey	verb	1	B2	to do what you are told to do by a person, rule, or instruction	The soldiers refused to obey (orders).	I have strict parents who tell me what to do and what not to do every day. If I don't obey them, I'll be punished for sure.
evp	object	noun	1	B1	a thing that you can see or touch but that is usually not alive	a bright, shiny object	I saw many things like dinosaur bones, mummies, various objects, etc.
evp	object	noun	2	B1	in grammar, the person or thing that is affected by the action of the verb or the person or thing that comes after a preposition	In the sentence "I like ice cream," "ice cream" is the object of the verb "like."	
evp	object	noun	3	C1	the purpose of something	The object of this game is to score more points than the opposing team.	In extreme cases, famous people are the object of the rage and hate many people bury in themselves.
evp	object	verb	1	B2	to feel or say that you do not like or do not approve of something or someone	He objects to the label "magician," which he is often called.	I would like to object to what the reporter said in his conclusion.
evp	objection	noun	1	B2	when someone says that they do not like or approve of something or someone	Our main objection to the restaurant adding outdoor tables is that it will be noisy.	In my opinion there are two main objections to the existence of zoos.
evp	objective	noun	1	B2	something that you are trying to achieve	Her main/prime objective now is simply to stay in office.	Do you think I will have the right conditions to do the diving course and achieve my objectives?
evp	objective	adjective	1	B2	only influenced by facts and not by feelings	I try to be objective when I review someone's work.	Friends can be more objective concerning your faults and can give you a different point of view.
evp	objectively	adverb	1	C1	in a way that is only influenced by facts and not by feelings	This test assesses all candidates objectively.	The articles are objectively written and what is more they are comprehensible to the majority of people.
evp	obligation	noun	1	B2	something that you do because it is your duty or because you feel you have to	If you have not signed a contract, you are under no obligation to pay them any money.	In spite of all these activities and obligations you don't have to worry about your rest because you will work just 5 hours a day and you will have enough free time to play your guitar.
evp	obligatory	adjective	1	C1	required, usually by a rule or law	The street was lined with the obligatory blue bins used for recyclable trash.	I think this is a very good way of encouraging people to learn to like exercise without them having to do it because it is obligatory.
evp	obligatory	adjective	2	C2	expected because it is usual	When we were in England, we made the obligatory trip to Stonehenge.	Everybody should try a Danish lunch with the obligatory bread with herring and lots of beer.
evp	obscene	adjective	1	C2	much too large or much more than is needed or necessary	obscene profits	Needless to say, the price was 'obscene', but I did not care.
evp	obscene	adjective	2	C2	offensive, rude, or disgusting
according to accepted moral standards, often relating to sex in a way that is unpleasant or shocking	an obscene gesture	It was a woman with a deep, sexual voice, talking about my boyfriend with obscene innuendos about our relationship.
evp	observant	adjective	1	C2	good or quick at noticing things	He's very observant.	What's more, Len is the most patient and observant listener I have ever come across.
evp	observation	noun	1	B2	when someone watches someone or something carefully	The doctor wants to keep him under observation for a week.	But actually it is boring when you're almost always under observation.
evp	observation	noun	2	C1	a remark about something that you have noticed	He made an interesting observation.	I'd like to make some observations regarding your CDs.
evp	observe	verb	1	B2	to watch someone or something carefully	The role of scientists is to observe and describe the world, not to try to control it.	To support the idea of making a short video about daily life at our school I have spent some time discussing it with other students, observing and analysing an average day in our school.
evp	observe	verb	2	C1	to notice something	Jack observed a look of anxiety on his brother's face.	Two trends can be observed: one, "sociological", giving women a more and more important role in our country, and the other, "cultural", still keeping them to three "sacred things" - household, kids and the church.
evp	observe	verb	3	C2	to obey a law, rule, or religious custom	to observe the law	
evp	observer	noun	1	C2	a person who watches what happens but has no active part in it	Political observers are expecting the election result to be close.	Not even UN observers from other African countries understood this.
evp	obsession	noun	1	B2	something or someone that you think about all the time	an unhealthy obsession with death	Shopping is an obsession for all of us.
evp	obsessive	adjective	1	C2	thinking too much about something, or doing something too much	obsessive behavior	At first I followed in an extremely obsessive way the swimming competitions, which lasted almost a week.
evp	obsolete	adjective	1	C1	not used now	obsolete equipment	The museum's advertisement promises an exciting experience, so students were surprised to find so many obsolete machines of no interest.
evp	obstacle	noun	1	C1	something that makes it difficult for you to do something or to succeed at something	to overcome an obstacle	Another obstacle for those students who wish to study in the library after classes, is the totally devastating fact of early closure.
evp	obstacle	noun	2	C1	a thing that blocks your way and is difficult to go around	We suddenly encountered an obstacle along the trail.	They had many obstacles in their way, for example a wall of bricks and no ladder to help them get on the other side - some of them were helping each other and could continue this rat race, and some had to finish it then.
evp	obtain	verb	1	B2	to get something	to obtain information	Now, he has obtained a permit from other countries to plant sugar in their countries.
evp	obvious	adjective	1	B1	easy to understand or see	"How do you know she's not happy?" "It's obvious."	The answers to your questions are obvious.
evp	obviously	adverb	1	B1	in a way that is easy to understand or see	Obviously, the school cannot function without teachers.	Obviously it's a special day for all the family, so we spend a lot of time - and also lots of money - o] dresses, food and flowers.
evp	occasion	noun	1	B1	an important event or ceremony	a special occasion	I enjoy wearing clothes for special occasions - for example a nice long dress.
evp	occasion	noun	2	B2	a time when something happens	That was a different/another occasion.	On one occasion our teacher left the class.
evp	occasion	noun	3	C2	sometimes, but not often	He has, on occasion, told a small lie.	
evp	occasional	adjective	1	C1	not happening or done often or regularly	occasional snowstorms	It is only occasional, but you have to plan ahead about when you are going to have a bath or shower and heat the water up.
evp	occasionally	adverb	1	B2	sometimes but not often	We occasionally get together for dinner.	I will need to use the computer to contact my friend on E-Mail and occasionally listen to a couple of CDs.
evp	occupation	noun	1	A2	your job	You have to give your name, age and occupation on the application form.	In the first lesson we introduced ourselves and described our occupation, interests and so on, to each other.
evp	occupation	noun	2	C1	something that you do in your free time	He has a few occupations, such as gardening and woodwork.	She made literature classes an engaging activity and fun and turned reading into an absorbing and fascinating occupation.
evp	occupation	noun	3	C2	when an army moves into a place and takes control of it	a military occupation	During the German occupation in Greece she was alone in Athens with her two children, because her husband had died in Albania, fighting against the Italians.
evp	occupy	verb	1	B2	to fill or use a place or period of time	His book collection occupies most of the room.	An intelligent solution to this is the bicycle, which can be parked almost everywhere and occupies little space.
evp	occupy	verb	2	B2	to keep someone busy or interested	On long car trips I occupy myself with puzzles.	So in order to keep myself occupied for a while, I went to the restaurant, except it wasn't open.
evp	occupy	verb	3	C1	to move into a place and take control of it	The troops eventually occupied most of the island.	It's a show called "Taxa" based on true stories. It takes you back to 1942, when Denmark was occupied by Germany.
evp	occur	verb	1	B2	to happen, often without being planned	The accident occurred at 10:15 in the east-bound lane and traffic was tied up for three hours.	Furthermore, I think that most accidents that occur with cars are due to the irresponsibility of some drivers and I think strong measures should be taken in order to punish them.
evp	occurrence	noun	1	C1	an event or something that happens	a common/rare occurrence	Many people would think this is a normal occurrence and take this capacity for granted, but my experience has been that this is not the case and that there are many people out there, especially parents, unable to show their true feelings.
evp	occurrence	noun	2	C1	the existence or presence of something	The tests can detect the occurrence of certain cancers.	Its line shows the occurrence of two peaks: one in the early 1980's (14%) and another one is expected to happen in the year 2010.
evp	ocean	noun	1	A2	a very large area of salt water	the Atlantic/Pacific/Indian/Arctic/Antarctic Ocean	My favorite room is the first to the right because I like the color and because from the window, I can see the ocean.
evp	ocean	noun	2	C2	a very small amount compared to the amount needed	My letter of protest was just a drop in the ocean.	I know I am a drop in the ocean, but I'm convinced it's the only way, my way, of contributing to improve education in Mexico.
evp	October	noun	1	A1	the tenth month of the year, after September and before November	the 22nd of October/October 22nd	I think the class starts the 3rd of October and finishes the 16th.
evp	odd	adjective	1	B2	strange or unusual	Her father was an odd man.	That struck me as odd, since i] had never happened before.
evp	odd	adjective	2	C2	used to talk about something that happens or exists sometimes but not often	She does the odd teaching job but nothing permanent.	This attitude makes it difficult for the odd foreigner who tries to get involved with the local community.
evp	oddly	adverb	1	C2	in a strange or surprising way	an oddly shaped house	Oddly enough, she never seems to be really angry and perhaps it is the reason why I like confiding in her.
evp	odds	noun	1	C1	the probability that a particular thing will or will not happen	She was sick yesterday, so the odds are she won’t be in today.	After all, on the battlefield for promotion, men still have a vital interest to set the odds against women in favor of their own opportunities.
evp	odds	noun	2	C2	If you do or achieve something against all the odds, you succeed although you were not likely to.	We won the game against all odds.	The stormy waters and heavy winds were a great challenge, and almost deemed it impossible for me to succeed, but against all odds I managed to defeat my fears.
evp	odds	noun	3	C2	various items of different types that are not valuable or important	We moved most of the furniture to the new house, but there are still a few odds and ends to bring over.	The photograph spent some time there; in the drawer under the odds and ends everybody has.
evp	odds	noun	4	C2	to not agree with someone or something	The two brothers were always at odds.	Young people are inexperienced as far as the world is concerned and thus they are frequently at odds with their family.
evp	odor	noun	1	C2	a particular smell, often one that is unpleasant	the musty odor of a damp cellar	Even though all the lights were on and there was an unpleasant odor of recently put-out cigarettes and also a smell of an expensive perfume, he just couldn't get a glimpse of anyone.
evp	off	adverb	1	A2	not at work	I had six weeks off when my son was born.	I will take a day off on Friday.
evp	off	adverb	2	A2	used with actions in which something is removed or removes itself from another thing	Take your jacket off.	I took off my ring.
evp	off	adverb	3	A2	not operating or being used	Make sure the computers are turned off before you go home.	When we arrived home, all the lights were off and everything was peaceful.
evp	off	adverb	4	B1	away from a place or position	I'm off to the grocery store.	They got into the car and drove off.
evp	off	adverb	5	B1	If a price has a certain amount of money off, it costs that much less than the usual price.	You can get some money off if you pay cash.	He promised me 30% off the price, so I'm going to buy the TV and the CD player from him.
evp	off	adverb	6	C1	far in distance or time	You can see the city off in the distance.	Allow me to start by saying that one day, which may lie not so far off in the future, people will visit the buildings which were formerly known as "Educational Institutions" like we visit museums to gape at the sheer size of the Dinosaurs...
evp	off	adjective	1	B2	If food or drink is off, it is not now fresh and good to eat or drink.	This milk smells off.	Who knows if the food isn't off?
evp	off	adjective	2	C2	stopped or given up	Last night’s baseball game was called off because of rain.	On that day, she had written him a big long letter and told him that it was all off, for she didn't love him any longer.
evp	offend	verb	1	B2	to make someone upset or angry	I think she was a bit offended that she hadn't been invited to the party.	I know that she was not offended but I will never forget my stupid question.
evp	offender	noun	1	B2	someone who has committed a crime	first-time/repeat offenders	The ticket fare is very reasonable, and there are always police patrolling around, protecting the people from offenders.
evp	offense	noun	1	B1	in sports such as football, the part of a team which tries to score points	The offense been having trouble moving the ball down the field.	
evp	offense	noun	2	B2	a crime	Driving without a license is an offense.	Finally, using a bike keeps you free of any parking problem or parking offense and your bike will wait for you all day long, because it won't be towed-away!
evp	offense	noun	3	B2	when something rude makes someone upset or angry	Do you think he took offense at what I said about his hair?	I hope you will not take offense but I think you work too much.
evp	offensive	adjective	1	B2	likely to make people angry or upset	This program contains language that some viewers might find offensive.	Dear Sir/Madam, The review on the Westfield Music Festival was both offensive and incorrect.
evp	offer	verb	1	A2	to say that you are willing to do something	Paul has offered to help us pack.	Dear Robbie, Thank you for offering to help me paint my bedroom.
evp	offer	verb	2	B1	to ask someone if they would like something	They've offered me a job.	He offered me a contract and asked me to go to his music studio to record a CD.
evp	offer	verb	3	B1	to give or provide something	to offer advice	Rome offers good nightlife so after visiting the museum, we'll be able to go to the disco.
evp	offer	verb	4	C1	to say that you will pay a particular amount of money	I offered him $1200 for the car.	My company will offer 20 percent more than the minimum wage that exists for the same type of work in Canada.
evp	offer	noun	1	A2	when you ask someone if they would like something	an offer of help	Thank you very much for your offer.
evp	offer	noun	2	B1	a cheap price or special arrangement for something you are buying	This special offer ends on Friday.	We found a £12 offer to Leeds Castle including bus transfer and entrance ticket for the castle.
evp	offer	noun	3	C2	an amount of money that you say you will pay for something	The highest offer anyone has made so far is $500.	
evp	office	noun	1	A2	a room or building where people work	I didn't leave the office until eight o'clock last night.	It's better for me to meet at central park, next to my office.
evp	office	noun	2	A2	the place where a doctor or other medical person sees patients	the doctor's/dentist's office	I need to change the hour of our meeting next Tuesday because I have an appointment at the doctor's office at 4:00 o'clock.
evp	office	noun	3	A2	a room or building where you can get information, tickets, or a particular service	a ticket office	I suggest we meet at 4:50 p.m, in the ticket office.
evp	office	noun	4	C1	an important job in a government or other organization	the office of executive vice president	The former Polish prime minister was a woman - Hanna Suchocka - and she was able to remain in office for 15 months, in the time when the life expectancy of governments in Poland is about half a year.
evp	officer	noun	1	B1	a police officer	a uniformed officer	They sent me an officer: Officer McDonald, from the anti-mafia department.
evp	officer	noun	2	B1	a person who has a position of authority in an organization	I had an interview with the university admissions officer.	I work as a customs officer and in this job I meet a lot of foreign people every day.
evp	officer	noun	3	B2	someone with an important job in a military organization	a military officer	He was an officer in the army.
evp	official	adjective	1	B2	approved by the government or someone in authority	the official language of Singapore	I have worked as an official translator in the British Embass[y] in Seoul.
evp	official	adjective	2	C2	connected with or arranged by someone in a position of responsibility	an official visit	For exactly that reason official reports are issued by doctors or psychologists in court in order to check the person's mental health and responsibility for the crime.
evp	official	adjective	3	C2	known by the public	Their engagement is now official.	It was now official, she was the most beautiful girl of the school.
evp	official	adjective	4	C2	An official explanation or statement is one that is given, but which may not be true.	The official reason for the delay is bad weather.	Well, this was the official reason to explain his stay, but the truth - which I had learned later - was that Martin was a broken man.
evp	official	noun	1	C2	a person who has a position of responsibility in a government or organization	a UN official	As to city officials, if they manage the whole event fine, this feat is bound to boost their chances at the next elections.
evp	officially	adverb	1	C1	formally and in a way agreed to or arranged by people in positions of authority	The new store was officially opened yesterday.	If I could travel back to any place and time in history, I would choose the day when Wor[l]d War II was officially declared over.
evp	off-putting	adjective	1	C2	slightly unpleasant or worrying so that you do not want to get involved in any way	He's slightly aggressive, which a lot of people find a bit off-putting when they first meet him.	Therefore, it's quite off-putting to stay in Hong Kong for higher education.
evp	offset	verb	1	C2	If one thing offsets another thing, it has the opposite effect and so creates a more balanced situation.	The costs have been offset by savings in other areas.	During the interview, she tried to offset the bad impression she was sure she had made.
evp	offspring	noun	1	C2	the child of a person or animal	to produce offspring	It is vital that parents be around their offspring, especially when they are young, to establish a warm, trusting relationship.
evp	often	adverb	1	A1	many times or regularly	I often shop there.	We often go swimming together.
evp	often	adverb	2	B2	If something often happens or is often true, it is normal for it to happen, or it is usually true.	Brothers and sisters often argue.	Very often, people link classical music to Austrian or German composers] such as Mozart or Handel, but rarely to England and geniuses such as Haydn and Purcell.
evp	often	adverb	3	C2	sometimes, but not often	He went into town every so often to buy supplies.	And likewise, common sense tells us it doesn't matter that oranges from Spain contain 0.01% more vitamin C than those from Florid[a], as long as we eat them every once in a while.
evp	oil	noun	1	A2	a thick liquid produced from plants that is used in cooking	olive/sunflower/vegetable oil	Hi Fatima, I think you can bring some potatoes, olive oil and lettuce.
evp	oil	noun	2	B1	a thick liquid that comes from under the Earth's surface that is used as a fuel and for making parts of machines move easily	an oil company	He is working in a big oil company called Agip.
evp	oil	noun	3	C2	to work late into the night	I had to burn the midnight oil to get the essay finished.	My examinations were nearing and I was always burning the midnight oil.
evp	OK	adjective	1	A1	not sick, damaged, upset, etc.	Are you OK? You look pale.	Hi, Ramesh, What are you doing? Are you OK?
evp	OK	adjective	2	A2	good or good enough	Is your food OK?	Well, about the music, I think salsa and rock music are OK.
evp	OK	adjective	3	A2	allowed or acceptable	Is it OK if I bring a friend to the party?	Dear Ally, It's okay that you couldn't come.
evp	OK	adverb	1	A2	in a satisfactory way	Everything was going OK until the printer stopped working.	Finally the day finished OK.
evp	old	adjective	1	A1	having lived or existed for many years	an old man	Wroctaw is an old town.
evp	old	adjective	2	A1	used to describe or ask about someone's age	How old is your father?	She is 23 years old.
evp	old	adjective	3	A2	from a period in the past	I saw my old English teacher last time I went home.	My old one is a Nokia.
evp	old	adjective	4	A2	someone who you have known and liked for a long time	I saw an old friend who I went to high school with.	Do you remember my old friend Jack?
evp	old	adjective	5	C1	a period in the past	This place isn't as good as it was in the old days.	In the old days, a scholar could spend years of his life in search of specific information, which now can be easily and inexpensively found at the click of a button!
evp	old-fashioned	adjective	1	B1	not modern	old-fashioned clothes/ideas/furniture	But I don't like clothes with stripes, because I think that's a little old-fashioned.
evp	olive	noun	1	B1	a small green or black fruit with a bitter taste that is eaten or used to produce oil	olive oil	In the countryside there are some hills, some sunflowers, olive trees and many medieval towns on the hills to visit!
evp	omelet	noun	1	A2	eggs that have been mixed and fried, often with other foods added	a cheese/mushroom omelet	
evp	omission	noun	1	C2	when something has not been included that should have been	Parents are upset by the omission of music from the school’s courses.	Finally, I think it would be an omission if I didn't mention the children that live in poverty and die from starvation and diseases every day.
evp	omit	verb	1	C1	to not include something	I’d be upset if my name were omitted from the list of contributors.	Moreover, an important aspect of language learning is good access to books and other written materials. For this reason, you should not omit our recently modernized library.
evp	on	adverb	1	A2	If you have something on, you are wearing it.	She has on a black coat.	And I want you to put on some baggy clothes, so that you'll feel comfortable while working.
evp	on	adverb	2	B1	into a bus, train, plane, etc. or onto a horse	It’s time to get on the bus.	
evp	on	adverb	3	B2	happening or planned	I'm busy this afternoon, but I don't have anything on tomorrow.	
evp	on	adverb	4	B2	working or being used	The heating has been on all day.	For example, the staff shouldn't leave the lights on and the heating's on when they don't need to use it.
evp	on	adverb	5	B2	in a way which results in forward movement	You continue on and I'll catch up.	I had just gotten o] the subway when it stopped and didn't move on.
evp	on	adverb	6	C2	performing	Hurry up with the make-up - I'm on in ten minutes.	My faith in youth started to fade but then a boy named Josh came on.
evp	once	adverb	1	A2	one single time	I went sailing once, but I didn't like it.	I can write to him once a week.
evp	once	adverb	2	B1	in the past, but not now	This house once belonged to my grandfather.	I once went to England and I love the style of the clothes and how people dress there!
evp	once	adverb	3	B1	again	Once again I'm left with all the dirty dishes!	Once again I'm sorry.
evp	once	adverb	4	B1	one more time	I'd like to visit the gardens once more before we leave.	On Friday I will see him once more.
evp	once	adverb	5	B1	used at the beginning of a story to mean a long time ago	Once upon a time there was a beautiful princess.	Once upon a time there was a very poor family.
evp	once	adverb	6	B2	immediately	I knew at once that I'd like it here.	We both were so tired that we went to bed at once.
evp	once	adverb	7	B2	at the same time	They all started talking at once.	It give me a good chance to see most of my favorite groups at once, and it was marvelous.
evp	once	adverb	8	B2	used to mean that something is happening that does not usually happen	The bus came on time for once!	We would take lots of pictures, and play our own instruments, and if we get lucky enough, we would even touch the very stones and for once be embraced by magic itself.
evp	once	adverb	9	B2	sometimes but not often	We do go to the beach once in a while.	She did not say very much except for "oh" and "yes, yes" every once in a while.
evp	once	adverb	10	C1	suddenly	All at once he stood up and walked out of the room.	All at once, everything started to work again.
evp	once	adverb	11	C2	completely and finally	We have to decide, once and for all, whether we want to ask Dad for money.	With the fall of the socialist block in the late 1980's, the ever-looming nuclear war seemed to have been avoided once and for all.
evp	one	noun	1	A1	the number 1	You have three bags and I only have one.	She has got three daughters and one son.
evp	ongoing	adjective	1	C2	still happening	an ongoing investigation/process/project	To sum up, we are extremely positive about the club's future and its ongoing success.
evp	onion	noun	1	A2	a round vegetable with layers that has a strong taste and smell	I always cry when I'm chopping onions.	This is cooked cabbage with beef, wild mushrooms and onion.
evp	online	adjective	1	A2	describes products, services or information that can be bought or used on the Internet	online banking/shopping	I like it very much, because I can play online games now.
evp	online	adverb	1	A2	bought, used, etc. using the Internet	I ordered them online.	When we went back home, I went online and checked my e-mails.
evp	only	adverb	1	A1	not more than a particular size or amount	She's only 13.	This is only ten minutes by car.
evp	only	adverb	2	A2	not anyone or anything else	Only Sue and Mark came to the meeting.	Only Marco, Anna, Sue and Nick came.
evp	only	adverb	3	B1	not in any other place	These televisions are only available in Japan.	I think animals, just as human beings, can only live in their natural habitat.
evp	only	adverb	4	B1	used to mean that something happened very recently	I only arrived half an hour ago.	I am really sorry I didn't write back earlier but I have only just got back from holiday.
evp	only	adverb	5	B1	used to say that something is not important, or that you did not mean to upset someone	Don't worry - it's only a scratch.	It was only a dream!
evp	only	adverb	6	B1	used when you want to say how doing something simple would make it possible to avoid something unpleasant	If only they'd listen to him, I'm sure they could work it out.	If only I had been more careful.
evp	only	adverb	7	B2	used to emphasize what you are hoping or wishing for	I only hope you know what you're doing.	I only hope I can have the chance to see her too.
evp	only	adverb	8	B2	used to say that more than one thing is true	Not only did he turn up late, he also forgot his books.	Not only did she introduce me to her friends but she also introduced me to her brother.
evp	only	adverb	9	C2	used to say that there are limits to something	There's only so much help you can give someone.	The effects of a longer life span have many side effects such as an increase in the world's population and, since there is only so much food, many more people are starving to death.
evp	only	adjective	1	A1	used to mean that there are not any others	This is our only chance.	I am the only French student in my class.
evp	only	adjective	2	C2	to not be perfect	Of course Tom makes mistakes - he's only human.	In theory, it is easy to say "We should learn from the mistakes of the past" but is it easy to do so in practice? Many people would say "No" to this question, as we are only human.
evp	open	adjective	1	A1	available for business or serving customers	The supermarket is open till 10.00 p.m.	They are open all day and all night.
evp	open	adjective	2	A2	not closed or fastened	an open door/window	The door was open!
evp	open	adjective	3	B1	An open area of land has no buildings on it or near it.	large open spaces	I need to be outside in open spaces.
evp	open	adjective	4	B2	to wait until you know all the facts before you form an opinion about something or judge someone	We're keeping an open mind about the causes of the fire.	To listen, to communicate, and to have an open mind are a way of life nowadays]
evp	open	adjective	5	B2	without a roof or cover	an open courtyard	You took me to a sightseeing trip around the town in an open car.
evp	open	adjective	6	C1	willing to consider a discussion/suggestions, etc.	This is only a proposal. I'm open to suggestions.	He seems open to ideas like this, and I am sure he will not cancel at the last minute!
evp	open	adjective	7	C2	An open person is honest and not trying to hide something.	He's quite open about his weaknesses.	He has also been very open about his diabetes and the problems connected with the disease.
evp	open	adjective	8	C2	not secret	There has been open hostility between them ever since they had that argument last summer.	The council has refused to have an open discussion with the residents.
evp	open	adjective	9	C2	can easily be debated/questioned/criticized, etc.	Their behavior at these negotiations is open to criticism.	Whether the wages of sportswomen and sportsmen are too high is open to question.
evp	open	verb	1	A1	to move something to a position that is not closed, or to make something change to a position that is not closed	to open a door/window	I can't open my cupboard without my key.
evp	open	verb	2	A2	to remove or separate part of a container or package so that you can see or use what it contains	Shall I open another bottle of water?	First I opened my presents.
evp	open	verb	3	A2	If a store or office opens at a particular time of day, it starts to do business at that time.	The coffee shop opens at ten o'clock.	It is open every day of the week except Mondays; it opens at 9:00 am and closes at 10:00 pm.
evp	open	verb	4	B1	to make a computer document or program ready to be read or used	First, open the file called "statistics."	
evp	open	verb	5	B2	If a business or activity opens, it starts officially for the first time, and if you open it, you make it start officially for the first time.	That restaurant's new - it only opened last month.	I am very happy to announce to you that a new museum has been opened in our town.
evp	open	verb	6	C2	to tell someone your secret thoughts and feelings	That night, she opened her heart to me.	It is during this excessively dramatic conversation that George opening up his heart, tells her about his interpretation of her unhappiness with Cecil.
evp	open	verb	7	C2	to watch carefully for someone or something	Keep your eyes open for anything unusual.	While staying in Turkey, for example, people ought to keep their eyes open. Look into life there.
evp	open	verb	8	B2	to start a new store or business	Several banks have recently opened up branches downtown.	We could set up hiking tours, mini-excursions in the mountains, survival camps. [...] With these kinds of activities, the village would need to open up more shops, restaurants, coffee shops etc.
evp	open	verb	9	C2	to start to talk more about yourself and your feelings	I've tried to get him to open up to me but without success.	Even when I tried to open up to my best friend, he laughed at me and said that I should go to a psychiatrist.
evp	opening	noun	1	B2	a ceremony at the beginning of an event or activity	The official opening of the new school will take place next month.	The festival starts with a huge opening parade.
evp	opening	noun	2	B2	the beginning of something	The opening of the novel is amazing.	
evp	opening	noun	3	C2	a hole or space that something or someone can pass through	The children crawled through an opening in the fence.	The water in the reservoir is allowed to flow through an opening in the dam.
evp	opening	adjective	1	C1	happening at the beginning of an event or activity	her opening remarks	Also we could offer free drinks from our new products on the opening night, so we could get their first impressions.
evp	openly	adverb	1	C1	without hiding any of your thoughts or feelings	They were openly dismissive of my suggestions.	I do hope that you are willing to cooperate, though I cannot say it openly.
evp	open-minded	adjective	1	C1	willing to consider ideas and opinions that are new or different from your own	Luckily, both my parents were very open-minded.	He is also open-minded and very reliable.
evp	openness	noun	1	C2	willingness to talk about your thoughts and feelings	I appreciated his openness.	Firstly, I have found honesty and openness significantly important.
evp	opera	noun	1	A2	a musical play in which most of the words are sung	"Carmen" is my favorite opera.	I like classical music and opera.
evp	operate	verb	1	B1	to treat an illness or injury by cutting someone's body and removing or repairing part of it	Did they have to operate on him?	One day he decided to give part of his money to his son, whose wife was sick and had to be operated on immediately.
evp	operate	verb	2	B2	If a machine operates, it does what it is designed to do, and if you operate it, you make it do what it is designed to do.	You have to be trained to operate the machinery.	Lots of things are operated by computers now like airplanes, elevators, ticket machines, and so on.
evp	operate	verb	3	B2	If an organization or business operates, it is working, and if you operate it, you manage it and make it work.	Our company is operating under very difficult conditions.	There is a new direct transportation service from London, operated by ABC coaches.
evp	operation	noun	1	B1	a medical procedure where a doctor cuts someone's body to remove or repair part of it	a major/minor operation	I'm sorry that I can't attend the class tomorrow because my father is having an operation tomorrow.
evp	operation	noun	2	C1	an activity that is planned in order to achieve something	a military/peacekeeping operation	An attempt to follow a lecture on the U.N.O. peace-keeping operations can be a real difficulty if you are not able to listen to CNN News by now.
evp	operation	noun	3	C1	an organization or business	a large commercial operation	If I cannot receive any satisfactory reply this month, I will write to the newspaper to expose your operation.
evp	operation	noun	4	C1	the fact of operating or being active	Several printing presses are in operation at the moment.	We see computers in operation at work as well as in almost every home.
evp	operator	noun	1	B2	someone whose job is to use and control a machine or vehicle	an camera/elevator/crane operator	Last year I was working in a printing company as a Macintosh operator.
evp	operator	noun	2	B2	a company that does a particular type of business	a tour operator	If once more we are not satisfied, tour operators organize several types of safari holidays wherever we like.
evp	opinion	noun	1	B1	a thought or belief about something or someone	What's your opinion about/on this plan?	I really enjoy shopping for clothes especially when I go shopping with my brother, because I sometimes ask him for his opinion.
evp	opinion	noun	2	B2	the thoughts or beliefs that a group of people have	The advertising campaign is intended to influence public opinion.	I would like to add that when it comes to public opinion there is a great variety of different points of view - that is why this article, which asserts that "performers were second-rate'' seems to be unfair.
evp	opinion	noun	3	C1	to think that someone or something is good/bad	He has a low opinion of doctors.	He had a very high opinion of this particular course.
evp	opinion	noun	4	C2	used to give your opinion about something, often when you are sure you are right	In my humble opinion, that's the wrong decision.	In my humble opinion, there's no such thing as a uniform celebrity, good, bad or otherwise.
evp	opponent	noun	1	B2	someone who you compete against in a game or competition	In the second game, her opponent hurt her leg and couldn't continue to play.	Carmelita was her opponent in the volleyball final.
evp	opponent	noun	2	B2	someone who disagrees with an action or belief and tries to change it	a political opponent	Lots of people think that zoos are necessary and good; their opponents demand we close all zoos because in their opinion they are cruel prisons for animals.
evp	opportunity	noun	1	B1	a situation in which it is possible for you to do something, or a possibility of doing something	Everyone will have an opportunity to comment.	It's a good opportunity to spend time with your friends.
evp	opportunity	noun	2	B2	the chance to get a job	employment/job opportunities	And many people don't have any other job opportunities so they would be stuck with these bad jobs.
evp	opportunity	noun	3	B2	to use an occasion to do or say something	I'd like to take this opportunity to thank all of you.	Most of the comments are not right at all. I would like to take this opportunity to correct them.
evp	oppose	verb	1	B2	to disagree with a plan or activity and to try to change or stop it	They both opposed the plan.	Some of them were defending the idea that the car is the most lethal object that anybody can have, and others who opposed that idea said that the car is and will always be the best invention made by humanity.
evp	opposite	adjective	1	B1	in a position facing something or someone but on the other side	My brother and I live on opposite sides of town.	[O]n the opposite side, there is a dark brown wardrobe which is made of wood.
evp	opposite	adjective	2	B2	completely different	All the traffic was going in the opposite direction.	The uncle had warned her so that she wouldn't interfere with what happened at the inn, but it had the opposite effect on Mary.
evp	opposite	adjective	3	C1	people who are the other sex from you	When you attend an all girls or all boys school, you don't study with members of the opposite sex.	This is not only about trying to impress (preferably) a person of the opposite sex, but fashion also gives you a great chance to express yourself.
evp	opposite	noun	1	B1	something or someone that is completely different from another person or thing	The opposite of "fast" is "slow."	Physically, she's the opposite of me.
evp	opposite	adverb	1	B1	in a position facing someone or something but on the other side	She asked the man sitting opposite whether he'd mind if she opened the window.	I was on the pavement next to my house and I was calling to my friend, when suddenly I saw a man who was just going around to my neighbour's car, which was parked opposite.
evp	opposition	noun	1	C1	strong disagreement	The proposal faces strong opposition.	The students, in an attempt to demonstrate the opposition of the Greek people to the military regime, occupied their schools for many days.
evp	opposition	noun	2	C1	the people or group not in power, especially a political party that does not have an elected majority	They expect to defeat the local opposition in Tuesday's election.	He was elected MP for a record of 9 times and was the leader of EPE for many years, leading the opposition when Georgios Papandreou, Andreas' father was in power.
evp	opt	verb	1	C1	to choose something or to decide to do something	Mike opted for early retirement.	My recommendation today is to take into consideration people's views and opt for the Park and Ride.
evp	optimism	noun	1	C2	when you believe good things will happen	There was a note of optimism in his voice as he spoke about the company's future.	We had never been abroad on our own and our hearts were full with a mixture of optimism, curiosity and absurd fears.
evp	optimist	noun	1	C1	someone who always believes that good things will happen	She's an optimist.	She is an incurable optimist with a great sense of humor.
evp	optimistic	adjective	1	B2	always believing that good things will happen	She is optimistic about her chances of winning a gold medal.	I'm not very optimistic about them being sensitive enough to try to produce fewer cars, putting human life before their profits.
evp	option	noun	1	B1	a choice	We don't have many options.	Think about it a little bit and choose the option you think is the best.
evp	option	noun	2	C1	to not have the possibility of doing something else	We didn't want to let him go, but we had no option.	For example, on the first day, Monday, students have the day free with their host parents but there are some of them who work all day and the students have no option but to stay alone in the house.
evp	optional	adjective	1	B2	If something is optional, you can choose whether to do it, pay it, buy it, etc.	English is required for all students, but art and music are optional.	Refer[r]ing to optional lessons, it was recommended that Speaking and Listening, Computer [Studies] and Business English are suitable for filming.
evp	oral	adjective	1	B2	spoken, not written	an oral agreement/exam	To sum it up, watching TV improves our oral skills and is a better way of taking notice of the world outside, whereas books improve our writing and reading skills.
evp	orange	adjective	1	A1	being a color that is a mixture of red and yellow	The setting sun filled the sky with a deep orange glow.	I bought two orange T-shirts.
evp	orange	noun	1	A1	a round, sweet fruit with a thick skin and a center that is divided into many equal parts	Do you want to get some oranges?	I like eating a sandwich with Flora and I like drinking tea with sugar or orange juice.
evp	orange	noun	2	A2	a color between red and yellow	His car is a bright orange.	My bedroom will be orange. I love orange, and please come with old clothes.
evp	orchestra	noun	1	B1	a large group of musicians who play different instruments together	a symphony orchestra	So last Thursday evening we went together to the club and there he introduced me to the choir director, a friendly man from Argentina who also plays cello in the orchestra.
evp	orchestral	adjective	1	B2	played by, written for or to do with an orchestra	an orchestral arrangement	The lyrics are about life, love, pain and death but the most important thing is how these lyrics match with the orchestral part of the song.
evp	ordeal	noun	1	C2	a very unpleasant experience	Her seven-month stay in the hospital was quite an ordeal.	Despite the unfavorable memory of this ordeal, I am of the opinion that, not only are family gatherings important in themselves, but also, I consider them to be crucial to the very existence of humanity.
evp	order	noun	1	A2	a request to make, supply or deliver food or goods	Did the waiter take our order yet?	You either have to flip burgers or take customers' orders.
evp	order	noun	2	B1	the way in which people or things are arranged, either in relation to one another or according to a particular characteristic	The children lined up in age/height order.	This is the order of the wedding ceremony] first the man and the woman enter the church together.
evp	order	noun	3	B1	with the purpose of achieving something	He came home early in order to see the children before they went to bed.	She will go to the United States in order to improve her English.
evp	order	noun	4	B1	If a machine or system is out of order, it is not working correctly.	The coffee machine is out of order.	Last week my TV was out of order.
evp	order	noun	5	B2	an instruction that someone must obey	The company received an order to stop releasing the polluting chemicals into the river.	Today I can still remember my last order: "Put that light out!"
evp	order	noun	6	B2	a situation in which everything is in its correct place	I like for everything to be in order before I go away.	Everthing was clean and in order.
evp	order	noun	7	C2	a situation in which people obey laws and there is no trouble	The teacher found it hard to keep her class in order.	Some young people began to be aggressive, putting everything in a mess; some policemen trying to restore order even got wounded.
evp	order	noun	8	C2	the way that the economy, politics, or society is organized	a threat to the established social order	The failure of the social order Ralph tries to establish and the success of beautifully painted hunters led by Jack, hunting pigs up in the mountains, slowly makes the number of Ralph's supporters diminish.
evp	order	noun	9	C2	a situation in which people obey laws and there is no trouble	The teacher found it hard to keep her class in order.	Some young people began to be aggressive, putting everything in a mess; some policemen trying to restore order even got wounded.
evp	order	noun	10	C2	the way that the economy, politics, or society is organized	a threat to the established social order	The failure of the social order Ralph tries to establish and the success of beautifully painted hunters led by Jack, hunting pigs up in the mountains, slowly makes the number of Ralph's supporters diminish.
evp	order	noun	11	C2	a situation in which people obey laws and there is no trouble	The teacher found it hard to keep her class in order.	Some young people began to be aggressive, putting everything in a mess; some policemen trying to restore order even got wounded.
evp	order	noun	12	C2	the way that the economy, politics, or society is organized	a threat to the established social order	The failure of the social order Ralph tries to establish and the success of beautifully painted hunters led by Jack, hunting pigs up in the mountains, slowly makes the number of Ralph's supporters diminish.
evp	order	noun	13	C2	a situation in which people obey laws and there is no trouble	The teacher found it hard to keep her class in order.	Some young people began to be aggressive, putting everything in a mess; some policemen trying to restore order even got wounded.
evp	order	noun	14	C2	the way that the economy, politics, or society is organized	a threat to the established social order	The failure of the social order Ralph tries to establish and the success of beautifully painted hunters led by Jack, hunting pigs up in the mountains, slowly makes the number of Ralph's supporters diminish.
evp	order	noun	15	C2	the obeying of laws in society	a breakdown in law and order	The breakdown in law and order, lack of basic amenities to support life, absence of a fair and enabling environment for citizens to thrive, to mention but a few, are some among many factors that constitute the cogent reason why most Nigerians choose to travel out of their own country.
evp	order	verb	1	A2	to ask for food, goods, etc.	I ordered the pasta and a mixed salad.	After 15 minutes I ordered a "Party Pizza."
evp	order	verb	2	B2	to give someone an instruction that they must obey	The management has ordered a cutback in spending.	Then, the men ordered him to walk back to the museum as if nothing had happened.
evp	ordinary	adjective	1	B1	not special, different, or unusual in any way	These are ordinary people living ordinary lives.	In the afternoon I prefer jean shorts or skirts with an ordinary t-shirt and sandals.
evp	ordinary	adjective	2	C2	unusual or different	The investigation revealed nothing out of the ordinary.	This event is something out of the ordinary for local life and it gives our town prestige and originality.
evp	organ	noun	1	C1	a part of an animal or plant that has a special purpose	internal/vital organs	Now you can replace or heal almost every bone or organ in a human body.
evp	organ	noun	2	C2	a musical instrument that has one or more rows of keys like a piano that when pressed produce sound by causing air to blow through pipes or electronically	a pipe organ	I played the piano for three hours every day, took organ lessons and at the age of 10 started to write programs on my home computer.
evp	organic	adjective	1	B2	not using artificial chemicals when keeping animals or growing plants for food	organic food/vegetables/meat	Also, people care more about what really is in the food they eat and so interest in organic food is increasing.
evp	organization	noun	1	B1	an official group of people who work together for the same purpose	the World Health Organization	She decided on studying abroad 2 years ago, applied to several organizations, got invitations to a few interviews with these organizations and finally got the 'OK' to go to the USA for one year.
evp	organization	noun	2	B1	the planning of an activity or event	He didn't want to be involved in the organization of/for the conference, although he agreed to attend.	I need to change the time of our meeting because my boss tells me that I have to work two more hours o] the organization for the party of the year.
evp	organization	noun	3	C1	the way that parts of something are arranged	I'm trying to improve the organization of my computer files.	The organization of books, magazines and references is fantastic.
evp	organize	verb	1	B1	to plan or arrange something	He organized the whole event.	Why don't you organize a dinner with your parents and your friends?
evp	organize	verb	2	B2	to do or arrange something according to a particular system	The books are organized by author, not by title.	Now Museums are big, have lots of light and you can find the latest technology in them. They are organized in such a different way.
evp	organized	adjective	1	B2	able to plan things carefully and keep things neat	She's not a very organized person and she always arrives late for meetings.	I know you're a very organized person so tell me which CDs I can use.
evp	organized	adjective	2	B2	planned or arranged	We didn't go on an organized tour.	It's a well-kept and organized place for animals to live.
evp	organizer	noun	1	B2	someone who plans an event or activity	conference/exhibition organizers	I have been working as a social activity organizer for 5 years at the English Language School.
evp	orientation	noun	1	C1	the position of something in relation to its surroundings	The building has an east-west orientation.	The information pack was really good but it would be helpful if you could include a map for orientation.
evp	orientation	noun	2	C2	training or preparation for a new job or activity	Orientation for new students begins Wednesday afternoon.	I may require some training or orientation should you be using specialized cleaning tools or equipment.
evp	orientation	noun	3	C2	the interests, activities, or beliefs that a person has	He has never tried to hide his political orientation.	Choices about friends, hobbies, professional orientation, have to start in the children, and it is the task of the parents not to restrict the power to choose, but advise them using their own experience, and to provide a safe environment where the final choice of the child, how ever free, won't entail any danger to him or her.
evp	origin	noun	1	B2	the cause of something, or where something begins or comes from	What's the origin of that saying?	The cooking is based on traditional recipes of Westfalian origin and it is tasty but often very rich!
evp	origin	noun	2	C1	the country, race, or social class of a person's family	He is of North African origin.	The rules are very simple, they can be understood by everyone, regardless of age, origin or social status.
evp	original	adjective	1	B1	existing since the beginning, or being the earliest form of something	That was my original plan.	They chose this school because it looks very similar to the original school where that old series was made.
evp	original	adjective	2	B1	special and interesting because of not being the same as others	Her essay was full of original ideas.	I like to be original.
evp	original	adjective	3	B2	describes a piece of work produced by an artist and not a copy	an original drawing/manuscript	We visited Mozart's house, where we could see not only how he lived, but also admire some of his original scores.
evp	original	noun	1	B2	something that is in the form in which it was first created and has not been copied or changed	If the painting is an original, it will be very valuable.	She was paying him, but not as much as she would need to to buy the original.
evp	originally	adverb	1	B2	at the beginning or before any changes	Originally it was a bedroom, but we turned it into a study.	I've been living in England for 6 months and I have studied English for 8 years in Sweden, where I was originally born.
evp	ornament	noun	1	C2	an attractive object that is used as a decoration in a home or garden	There were glass ornaments on the shelf.	Expensive products such as necklaces and decorative ornaments are highly represented, much to the joy of the more wealthy people in the town.
evp	orphan	noun	1	C2	a child whose parents have died	They adopted an orphan.	"Vanyka" is a story about a nine-year-old orphan sent to Moscow to work as a servant in a rich person's] house.
evp	orthodox	adjective	1	C2	If ideas or methods are orthodox, most people think they are correct, usually because they have existed for a long time.	orthodox methods of teaching	To tell the truth, I was brought up in a rather orthodox way.
evp	orthodox	adjective	2	C2	keeping a particular traditional set of religious beliefs and customs	an orthodox Jewish family	It is a celebration, a hymn to love, and honors the memory of St Hyacinth, an orthodox martyr who died for his faith.
evp	otherwise	adverb	1	B1	used to say what the result would be if something else did not happen	I'd better write it down, otherwise I'll forget it.	Oh! I'll have to buy a table for the computer. Otherwise, I'll have to use my computer on my bed.
evp	otherwise	adverb	2	B2	except for what has just been referred to	The bike needs a new saddle, but otherwise it's in good condition.	This seemed the high point of an otherwise dull and disorganized event.
evp	otherwise	adverb	3	C1	differently than what has been stated	I'll meet you there at 6 o'clock, unless I hear otherwise.	An important event in the history of Greece was the Civil War between the cities of Athens and Spart[a] around 400 B.C., otherwise known as the Pelopon[n]esian War.
evp	ounce	noun	1	C1	a unit for measuring weight, equal to 1/16 pound or 28.35 grams	Add four ounces of butter.	
evp	ounce	noun	2	C2	a very small amount of something such as a quality or emotion	If he’s got an ounce of common sense, he’ll realize that this project is bound to fail.	I trained a lot, putting my last ounce of energy into the process, determined to win.
evp	out	adverb	1	A2	used to refer to a period of time when someone goes away from home for a social activity	He's out nearly every night.	After the film, we can have dinner out.
evp	out	adverb	2	A2	not in the place where you usually live or work, especially for a short time	I came by to see you this morning, but you were out.	Will you give it back to my father because I am out for a while.
evp	out	adverb	3	B1	used to show movement away from the inside of a place or container	Get out!	When I was on the plane, I decided to open my suitcase to take out my CD player because I was bored.
evp	out	adverb	4	B1	able to be seen	The stars are out tonight.	In the beginning it was raining a little bit, but then the sun came out.
evp	out	adverb	5	B1	available to buy or see	Is the new Harry Potter book out yet?	It came out just yesterday.
evp	out	adverb	6	B1	to the point where something is removed or disappears	The stain won't come out.	A friend of mine told me, when he was in Lampton, that you couldn't have special rates for students at Hotel Royal, so you should cross that information out of the guide.
evp	out	adverb	7	B1	If you say or read something out loud, you say or read it so that other people can hear you.	I had to read the essay out loud in front of the whole school.	She wouldn't accept it so I read it out loud for her to hear: "Director, Jason Meyer, and producer, Sami Woods, are receiving...".
evp	out	adverb	8	B2	If a light or fire is out, it is no longer shining or burning.	When we got home, all the lights were out.	I looked out through the window to check if the lights were out in the windows of the block of flats next to ours.
evp	out	adverb	9	C2	a long distance away from land, a town or your own country	The fishing boats were out at sea for three days.	Today I live out in the country.
evp	out	adverb	10	C2	having no money, no luck and no opportunities	Nobody loves you when you're down and out.	The neglect of social security as a vital point in state policies leaves homeless people down and out, with little chance for improving their bleak prospects.
evp	out	adverb	11	C2	the details of a particular subject	the ins and outs of the legal system	I knew all the ins and outs of every story but I couldn't stay one single day in bed without reading it.
evp	out	adverb	12	C2	If the jury is (still) out on a subject, people do not yet know the answer or have a definite opinion about it.	The jury's still out on whether these vitamins protect against cancer.	I think that the jury is still out on the effects of television and other media.
evp	out	adverb	13	C2	to try very hard to do something pleasant for someone	He went out of his way to make us feel welcome.	
evp	out	adverb	14	C2	to finish a task or to get rid of something unpleasant	I'll go shopping when I've got this essay out of the way.	It was a joyful reunion and everybody was grateful to have all misunderstandings out of the way and to be one big family once more.
evp	outbreak	noun	1	C2	when something unpleasant and difficult to control starts, such as a war or disease	an outbreak of flu/disease	Being a GP during the time of another outbreak of the flu, meant long hours of hard work.
evp	outcome	noun	1	C1	the final result of an activity or process	It's too early to predict the outcome of the meeting.	In order to ensure a pleasant end-of-term activity and to avoid yet another negative outcome, it is necessary for us to dispose of a great sum of money.
evp	outdoor	adjective	1	B1	happening, used, or in a place that is outside and not inside a building	an outdoor pool/concert	The water temperature of the outdoor pool is relatively cold because it's filled with natural mountain-spring-water.
evp	outdoors	adverb	1	B1	outside	If the weather's good, we'll eat outdoors.	My parents always tell me that I should spend more time outdoors.
evp	outer	adjective	1	B2	on the edge or surface of something	Remove the outer layers of the onion.	Perhaps you could give some consideration to the outer building, like renovation work.
evp	outgoing	adjective	1	C1	Someone who is outgoing is friendly, talks a lot, and enjoys meeting people.	Anne is very outgoing, but her sister's quite shy.	He is very outgoing, friendly and communicative.
evp	outgoing	adjective	2	C2	going to another place, or leaving a job	outgoing mail/calls/flights	We therefore propose you scrap your plans for Terminal 5 and instead try to reduce the number of incoming and outgoing flights, by diverting some planes to Luton or Stansted or Gatwick Airport.
evp	outlet	noun	1	C1	a store at which a company sells its products at lower prices than usual	a factory outlet	Some people can only afford the local two dollar shop or factory outlets.
evp	outlet	noun	2	C1	a place a plug fits in to connect a piece of electrical equipment to the electricity supply	an electrical outlet	
evp	outlet	noun	3	C2	a store or restaurant that sells products of a particular company or a particular type	The company has more than 1200 retail outlets nationwide.	In addition, the atmosphere is cheered up by the presence of the most well-known fast-food outlets of our country, where the client can find some rest and food at a good price]
evp	outlet	noun	4	C2	a way for someone to express an emotion, idea, or ability	She needs a job that will provide an outlet for her creative talent.	I am a very busy person but I try to find time to go to concerts, which, I think, are an excellent outlet for our feelings.
evp	outline	noun	1	B2	a short description of the most important ideas or facts about something	If you read the minutes of the meeting, they'll give you a brief/broad outline of what was discussed.	Perhaps a brief outline of the party will help you to make your decision.
evp	outline	noun	2	C2	the shape made by the outside edge of something	She drew the outline of the boat and then colored it in.	The roof tiles were of a beautiful shade of pink, each of them carved in an outline of a heart.
evp	outline	verb	1	B2	to describe only the most important ideas or facts about something	At the interview she outlined what I would be doing.	First of all, I will briefly outline some personal details.
evp	outlook	noun	1	C1	the likely future situation	The economic outlook is good.	The outlook for all three companies is bright over the next 5 years.
evp	outlook	noun	2	C2	the way a person thinks about something	a positive/negative/optimistic outlook	He was a kind and friendly man, with an optimistic outlook on life.
evp	outnumber	verb	1	C1	to be larger in number than another group	Women outnumber men in our language classes.	An annual average rate of 10% GDP growth for the past ten years has created more than 7 million new jobs, which outnumbered the number of new male entrants.
evp	out-of-date	adjective	1	B1	old and no longer useful, correct or fashionable	I had a very out-of-date map.	I don't want to be an out-of-date person.
evp	output	noun	1	C2	an amount of something produced by a person, machine, factory, country, etc.	Last year British manufacturing output fell by 14%.	The right-wing thinkers claim that unemployment is one of the indicators in the economy, displaying a lack of balance between industrial output and citizens' demands.
evp	outrage	noun	1	C2	a strong feeling of anger or shock	Many politicians and members of the public expressed outrage at the verdict.	
evp	outrage	noun	2	C2	something that causes great anger or shock	The terrible living conditions of migrant workers, he said, were an outrage.	It shows one child's reaction to the outrage, to the fear and it as been held out as an example of the unthinkable and cruel effects that a racist mentality may have.
evp	outrage	verb	1	C1	to cause someone to feel very angry, shocked, or upset	The proposed pay cut outraged the staff.	I was outraged when I was given a copy of an article published in your magazine.
evp	outrageous	adjective	1	B2	shocking or extreme	outrageous behavior/clothes	The only negative thing to be said about this restaurant is that the prices are outrageous, but it is worth every penny.
evp	outside	adverb	1	A1	not inside a building	It's cold outside!	You can sit on the chair outside and look at the bridge.
evp	outside	adverb	2	A2	not in a particular room or building but near it	I'll wait outside while you get changed.	We are going to go to Top Totty and will wait for you outside.
evp	outside	adjective	1	B2	not in a building	an outside light	I was going to say to him to turn on the outside light, but seeing his face, I changed my mind.
evp	outside	adjective	2	C1	coming from another place or organization	The company has called in outside experts.	
evp	outside	noun	1	B2	the outer part or side of something	The outside of the house needs to be painted.	It had been dark in the room since the door was locked from the outside.
evp	outskirts	noun	1	B2	the outer area of a city or town	The new assembly plant is being built on the outskirts of town.	There I booked a room in a small lovely boarding house in the outskirts of the town.
evp	outstanding	adjective	1	B2	excellent and much better than most	an outstanding achievement	Although it was an outstanding festival, I would like to point out some problems that happened there.
evp	outweigh	verb	1	C1	to be greater or more important than something else	The benefits of this treatment far outweigh the risks.	However, in my opinion the advantages far outweigh the disadvantages and competition is a natural phenomenon that we should accept.
evp	oval	adjective	1	B2	in the shape of an egg or a slightly flat circle	an oval mirror	It was green, oval and opaque.
evp	oven	noun	1	B1	a boxlike part of a stove or separate device with a door, which is used to cook food	a toaster/microwave oven	They eat the traditional food - souvlaki and potatoes cooked in the oven.
evp	over	adverb	1	A2	more than a particular amount or level	People who are 65 years old and over can get half-price tickets.	
evp	over	adverb	2	B1	from one side or place to another	She leaned over and kissed me.	He came over to me and we talked a while.
evp	over	adverb	3	B1	finished	I'll be glad when the semester is over.	David smiled triumphantly and said, "It is all over!"
evp	over	adverb	4	B2	describes the way an object moves or is moved so that a different part of it is facing up	She turned another page over.	A big truck had turned over and blocked the road and there was no other way for us to go, so we had to wait.
evp	over	adverb	5	B2	happening or done many times	I read the article over and over.	I've been searching in newspapers over and over again and finally after a couple of days I found something.
evp	over	adverb	6	B2	repeated from the beginning	We had to start all over again.	After that I went back to my home in Ribeirao Preto to begin my routine all over again.
evp	over	adverb	7	C2	to do something difficult or unpleasant as soon as you can so that you do not have to worry about it any more	I got all my apologies over and done with at the beginning of the meeting.	Not to mention that he knew that he had to get his degree over and done with before he started making serious decisions.
evp	overall	adverb	1	B2	in general rather than in particular, or including all the people or things in a particular group or situation	The overall situation is good, despite a few minor problems.	Overall these two restaurants are worth going to for nice meals.
evp	overboard	adverb	1	C2	over the side of a boat and into the water	Wait! Something fell overboard.	My diary is lost - it fell overboard on my way home.
evp	overboard	adverb	2	C2	to do something too much, or to be too excited about something	I think I went overboard cooking this dinner – there is enough to feed a dozen people.	While no one should restrict their eating habits to the point eating is no longer a pleasure, but rather a chore, it is important not to go overboard, completely disregarding the advice of nutrition experts.
evp	overcome	verb	1	B2	to deal with and control a problem or feeling	I admire the way she has overcome her difficulties/problems and made a success of her life.	Trying to overcome my fear, I was slowly going toward the dangerous stranger.
evp	overcome	verb	2	C2	to suddenly have too much of a feeling	She was overcome by emotion.	When she got in her house she was overcome by a sense of wrath and started screaming and crying.
evp	overcrowded	adjective	1	C1	containing too many people or things	an overcrowded classroom/prison	As you arrive about midday, the trams are likely to be overcrowded.
evp	overdo	verb	1	C1	to do or use too much of something	I went to the gym yesterday, but I think I overdid it a bit.	On the other hand, people usually overdo it and prefer making use of the modern technology to meeting a friend.
evp	overdrawn	adjective	1	C1	If you are overdrawn, you have taken more money out of your bank account than you had in it.	Your account is overdrawn.	In other words their expenditure is much more than their income. They get into debt and are mostly overdrawn.
evp	overestimate	verb	1	C1	to guess or think that something is or will be bigger or better than it really is	They overestimated her ability to do the job.	In spite of the progress achieved in promoting the social status of women, one should not overestimate the significance of these achievements to ordinary women's careers.
evp	overflow	verb	1	C2	If a container overflows, the things inside it start to come out because it is too full, and if the contents of a container overflow, they come out because it is too full.	The sink overflowed, and there's water all over the floor!	As a result of relentless rain the river had broken its banks and overflowed violently.
evp	overflow	verb	2	C2	If a place is overflowing, there are too many people in it.	The square was overflowing with people trying to see the queen.	The prisons are overflowing, society is losing out in many ways.
evp	overflow	verb	3	C2	to have a lot of a quality or emotion	Her father was overflowing with pride as he watched her receive her award.	She felt overflowing with indignation as if he had been rude to her.
evp	overhear	verb	1	C2	to hear what someone is saying when they are not talking to you	I overheard him telling her he was leaving.	I once overheard a remark from a person who had just been in Italy.
evp	overlap	verb	1	C2	If two subjects or activities overlap, they are the same in some way.	Although our job titles are different, our responsibilities overlap quite a lot.	Of course, these two motivations can be overlapping and ideally they do overlap.
evp	overload	verb	1	C1	to fill something with too much or more then it should contain	Don’t overload the washer or it won’t work properly.	Secondly the buses and trains are mostly overloaded.
evp	overload	verb	2	C2	to give someone too much to do	All the staff are completely overloaded.	I was also overloaded with work and had many doubts about joining the group at all.
evp	overload	noun	1	C2	when someone has more of something than they can deal with	We are suffering from data overload here.	Will we get to the point of "information overload"?
evp	overlook	verb	1	B2	to have a view of something from above	Our hotel room overlooked the harbor.	I had a delicious lunch in a cozy restaurant overlooking the Cote d'Azur.
evp	overlook	verb	2	C2	to not notice or consider something	His film was nominated for an Oscar, but Reiner himself was overlooked as best director.	Of course, man's basic needs cannot be overlooked and a certain amount of wealth can be put to very good use, wisely to provide for oneself and one's family and home.
evp	overnight	adjective	1	B1	for or during the night	an overnight stop in Paris	We will stay in our tents overnight and get up early in the morning to reach the next camping site.
evp	overnight	adjective	2	C2	very quickly or suddenly	Change does not happen overnight.	I am aware of the fact that it is not at all an easy path nor is it something that can happen overnight.
evp	overseas	adjective	1	B2	in, from or to other countries	We need to open up the overseas markets.	It is suggested that one of our English as a Foreign Language lessons should be filmed, as there are some 100 overseas students who are from over 30 countries in our school.
evp	overtake	verb	1	B2	to go past a vehicle or person that is going in the same direction	We were overtaken by a red sports car.	Of course it is easier for a bike to overtake the cars in traffic jams.
evp	overtake	verb	2	C1	to go past something by being a greater amount or degree	US sales have been overtaken by sales in Europe.	This however was projected to be overtaken by people coming from the 35-49 year old bracket by 2006.
evp	overtime	noun	1	B2	extra time that you work after your usual working hours	He's been working a lot of overtime lately.	You can't go on living like this, chasing around and always being pressured by your work and all this overtime.
evp	overview	noun	1	C1	a short description giving the most important facts about something	I'll just give you an overview of the job.	Moreover, I would recommend a student and a teacher to be interviewed, so that we can provide a better overview of the institution itself, with both the opinions of those who teach and those who learn here.
evp	overview	noun	2	C1	knowledge of the general features of something	Having spent some time there, she had a good overview of the market.	As my main interest was to get an overview of the current market situation, I was simply impressed by the variety of companies that you've presented.
evp	overweight	adjective	1	B2	too heavy or too fat	He's still a few pounds overweight.	In England the majority of people are either overweight or underweight.
evp	overwhelm	verb	1	C1	If a feeling or situation overwhelms someone, it has an effect that is too strong or extreme.	She was overwhelmed by the excitement of it all.	I am sure the students from the acting classes will be overwhelmed by the grandeur of the 200-seat theater.
evp	overwhelming	adjective	1	C1	very strong in effect or large in amount	She felt an overwhelming urge/desire/need to tell someone about what had happened.	Second, the overwhelming majority of your staff members speaks English only, which poses a big problem for those passengers who can not speak English.
evp	overworked	adjective	1	C1	Someone who is overworked has to work too much.	We're overworked and underpaid.	People are overworked and often choose fast food for dinner.
evp	owe	verb	1	B1	to have to pay money back to someone	I owe Janet ten dollars.	Please tell me how much I owe you for that.
evp	owe	verb	2	B2	to have to give something to someone because they deserve it	I think you owe me an explanation/apology.	I owe you a favor.
evp	owe	verb	3	C2	to have something or achieve something because of someone or something else	The museum owes much of its success to the present generation of young artists.	Many restaurants, bars and gift shops owe their existence to the fact that visitors to our country enjoy the view of the river and its surroundings.
evp	owl	noun	1	B2	a bird with a flat face, large eyes, and strong curved nails, which hunts small mammals at night	We heard an owl hooting in the night.	I could hear an owl hooting in the tree nearby.
evp	own	adjective	1	A2	belonging to or done by a particular person or thing	All of the students have their own dictionaries.	We have to bring our own paints.
evp	own	adjective	2	B1	belonging to someone or something	I'll have a home of my own someday.	I also bought a cupboard of my own, so that I need not share with my sister.
evp	own	adjective	3	B1	alone	I like living on my own.	On Wedn[e]sday morning I went on my own to see the Vatican.
evp	own	adjective	4	B1	without any help	Ryan can't get into his shirt on his own - he's just a baby!	Maybe I can do the missing work on my own.
evp	own	adjective	5	C2	to be as successful as other people or things	Alison could always hold her own in political debates.	
evp	own	verb	1	B1	to have something that legally belongs to you	We own our house.	It is owned by a Japanese owner.
evp	owner	noun	1	B1	someone who owns something	Are you the owner of this car?	The owner was an old woman who lives alone in a big house with her pet animals.
evp	ownership	noun	1	C1	when you own something	Do you have any proof of ownership for this car?	Converting all of this into private ownership is a long term process.
evp	oxygen	noun	1	B2	a gas that is in the air and that animals need to live	an oxygen tank	Everybody needs oxygen and trees produce oxygen.
evp	ozone	noun	1	C1	a form of oxygen that exists high in the atmosphere	the ozone layer	There is probably no child who hasn't heard about the holes in the ozone layer or the greenhouse effect.
evp	pace	noun	1	B2	the speed at which someone or something moves or does something	a slow/fast pace	I am living at a much faster pace.
evp	pace	noun	2	C1	to move or develop at the same speed as someone or something else	We have to keep pace with the changing times.	It was first published a century ago and what amazes people most is that it keeps pace with the development of the country without leaving out references to our history and tradition.
evp	pace	verb	1	C2	to be careful not to do something too quickly so that you do not get too tired to finish it	You must learn to pace yourself if you want to win.	When people are so old, they begin to pace themselves with some difficulties.
evp	pace	verb	2	C2	to walk around because you are worried or excited about something	She paced back and forth outside the courtroom.	He was pacing up and down the entrance hall when finally he caught a glimpse of a person disappearing a]roun a corner.
evp	pack	verb	1	A2	to put your things into suitcases, boxes, etc. when you are going on vacation or leaving the place where you live	We're leaving early tomorrow morning, so you'd better pack tonight.	That day I picked up my tickets to India and came back home to pack my things, and of course I used my new suitcase.
evp	pack	verb	2	B2	to collect all your things together when you have finished doing something	Give me a minute to pack up my things and then we can leave.	They packed up all the equipment and got ready to leave, because most of them had to attend school the next day.
evp	pack	noun	1	B2	a set of products or other things that are wrapped up together	The information pack contains a brochure and a map.	Almost 70% of people during a normal day eat at least two packs of chips and chocolate.
evp	pack	noun	2	C2	a group of animals that live together, especially those of the dog family	a pack of wolves	We were like a pack of wolves, only puppies at the time though.
evp	package	noun	1	B2	a box or other container that is shipped or brought to someone	I need to get to the post office to send/mail this package.	It was a call from the post office saying that the package he was waiting for had arrived]
evp	package	noun	2	B2	a related group of things when they are offered together as a single unit	a retirement/benefits package	Lastly, I need to know if all meals are included in your package.
evp	package	noun	3	B2	a small bag or box that contains an amount of a particular thing	a package of rice / spinach	If you really want some candy] you should eat some, but not the whole package.
evp	packed	adjective	1	B2	very crowded	The hall was packed.	If you want to meet and photograph the local people, the place to go is the Wednesday market. It is always packed with farmers, children, older people and so on.
evp	pact	noun	1	C2	an agreement between two people or groups	We have a pact never to talk about each other.	It became clear we had made a pact of silence.
evp	page	noun	1	A1	a piece of paper in a book, magazine, etc., or one side of a piece of paper	Now turn to page 17 in your course book.	It has 1095 pages and it is very big.
evp	page	noun	2	A2	a part of a Web site that can be read on a computer screen	I printed out a page about leg exercises.	The information is on an internet page, the site is www.art.com. For more information - visit the page.
evp	pain	noun	1	A2	an unpleasant physical feeling caused by an injury or illness	chest/stomach pains	I have a back pain and I couldn't sleep last night.
evp	pain	noun	2	B2	sadness or mental suffering caused by an unpleasant event	Job losses in the auto industry are causing a lot of pain.	He had caused me so much pain that I was unable to forgive him anymore.
evp	pain	noun	3	B2	to be annoying	Having to keep the bikes in the house is such a pain.	It was really a pain to pay that much for only a box of metal and a screen, but I think it is really going to help me.
evp	pain	noun	4	C1	to be annoying	My brother can be a real pain in the neck sometimes.	He's adorable although sometimes he can really be a pain in the neck (don't tell him I wrote this.)
evp	pain	noun	5	C2	a sudden, short, strong pain	I felt a sharp pain in my leg.	All that Tom remembered afterward was the loud noise of the braking tires, a sharp pain in his legs and then darkness.
evp	painful	adjective	1	B1	causing physical pain	A painful injury forced her to leave the game.	One of my teeth is very painful.
evp	painful	adjective	2	B2	making you feel sad or upset	The old photograph brought back painful memories.	You know, I went through this painful decision just a few months ago, when I started working for a new company that pays me more, but gives me less time for my hobbies.
evp	paint	noun	1	A1	a colored liquid that you put on a surface such as a wall to decorate it, or that you use to produce a picture	a can of paint	I'm going to use orange paint to paint my bedroom.
evp	paint	verb	1	A1	to produce a picture of something or someone using paint	All these pictures were painted by local artists.	I like to paint so my favorite subject is art.
evp	paint	verb	2	A2	to cover a surface with paint in order to decorate it	We painted the bedroom blue.	I want your help to paint my room.
evp	painter	noun	1	A2	someone who paints pictures	We are studying 19th century French painters.	We have to bring information about some painters, such as Velazquez or Picasso.
evp	painting	noun	1	A2	a picture that someone has painted	a painting by Caravaggio	There are beautiful paintings painted by famous Iranian painters.
evp	painting	noun	2	A2	the activity of painting pictures or painting surfaces	I took a painting and drawing class.	I like reading, painting, and I like swimming too.
evp	pair	noun	1	A1	two people who are doing something together	I'd like you to do this exercise in pairs.	We do dialogues in pairs or between other students.
evp	pair	noun	2	A2	two things that look the same and that are used together	a pair of shoes/gloves	I got a pair of earrings from my parents.
evp	pair	noun	3	A2	something that is made of two parts that are joined together	a pair of scissors/glasses	Don't forget to bring an old T-shirt and a pair of jeans.
evp	pajamas	noun	1	A2	soft, loose clothing that is worn in bed and consists of a shirt and pants	I need a new pair of pajamas.	However, bring old clothes or pajamas.
evp	palace	noun	1	B1	a very large building where a king, queen or president lives	a royal/presidential palace	I know some places in London] like Big Ben and Buckingham Palace.
evp	palm	noun	1	C1	a tall tree with long leaves at the top that grows in hot countries	They sat beneath a palm tree.	Santorini was a picturesque island, with many rural areas, sensational deserted beaches with palm trees.
evp	palm	noun	2	C2	the inside surface of your hand	I cut the palm of my hand on the rock.	When the concert was over, everybody in the audience was on their feet clapping (until their palms were sweaty) and asking for an encore.
evp	pan	noun	1	B1	a round, metal container with a handle and usually a lid, that is used for cooking food	Heat the milk in the small pan.	[At this restaurant,] you cook the food in the pan by yourself.
evp	pan	noun	2	B2	a metal container used for cooking food in an oven	cake pans	
evp	pancake	noun	1	B2	a thin, flat food made from flour, milk, and egg mixed together and cooked in a pan	We had pancakes with maple syrup.	You can't come to Holland without trying the Dutch pancakes, which are much better than the English ones.
evp	panel	noun	1	C1	a group of people who are chosen to discuss something or make a decision about something	a panel of experts	We can justify our opinion about the quality by referring to the extremely varied and constructive social program, which is also organized by a panel of experts, sociologists and psychologists.
evp	panel	noun	2	C2	a flat, rectangular piece of wood, metal, etc. that forms the surface of a door, wall, etc.	The walls were made from wooden panels.	The glass roof provides excellent lighting, and the wood panels on the walls certainly contribute to the cozy atmosphere.
evp	panic	noun	1	B2	a sudden, strong feeling of worry or fear that makes you unable to think or behave calmly	a state of panic	So in a state of panic she decided to take a taxi.
evp	panic	verb	1	B2	to suddenly feel so worried or frightened that you cannot think or behave calmly, or to make someone feel this way	Don't panic! We've got plenty of time.	David started thinking that a thief may have come in]t their house. "Don't panic", he told his wife.
evp	panties	noun	1	B2	women's underwear which covers the bottom	a pair of panties	The whole audience could see the color of my panties. How embarrassing! I could just die.
evp	pants	noun	1	A1	a piece of clothing that covers the lower part of the body and has a separate part for each leg	a pair of brown pants	And please can you wear a white T-shirt and blue pants?
evp	pantyhose	noun	1	B1	a piece of women's clothing made of thin material that covers body below the waist, including the legs	She bought a new pair of pantyhose.	
evp	paper	noun	1	A1	thin, flat material used for writing or drawing on, covering things in, etc.	a piece/sheet of paper	[The] teacher will give us paper so don't worry!
evp	paper	noun	2	B1	a newspaper	a daily/weekly/local/national paper	Hey Jo, Yesterday I saw an advertisement for a job in a local paper: it said that if you like pets, you can become a dog-sitter for three days a week.
evp	paper	noun	3	B1	a piece of writing about a particular subject	I have a ten-page paper due for my history class next Monday.	I wrote a paper about children in Africa - their feelings concerning the Civil war.
evp	paperwork	noun	1	B2	the part of a job that involves producing reports, writing letters, organizing information, etc.	Many office jobs involve a lot of unnecessary paperwork.	As I am good at paperwork, I think it would be great if I could help you in the office.
evp	parachute	noun	1	B2	a large piece of special cloth used to cause someone or something it is attached to drop slowly and safely from an aircraft to the ground	He used a parachute to jump to safety.	Those minutes, up in the air, feeling the wind in my face, were fantastic... and then I was terrified when I couldn't open the parachute!
evp	parade	noun	1	B2	a line of people or vehicles that moves through a public place as a way of celebrating an occasion	the Labor Day / Memorial Day parade	The festival starts with a huge opening parade.
evp	paradigm	noun	1	C2	a typical example or model of something	Career women are establishing a new paradigm of work and family life.	Science is supposed to be a rational, factual matter, but especially in this field when you express a view or do research into topics which go against the ruling paradigm, it's difficult.
evp	paradise	noun	1	C1	a perfect place or situation	a tropical paradise	Our online catalogue is a true shopping paradise.
evp	paradox	noun	1	C2	a situation that seems very strange or impossible because of two opposite qualities or facts	It's a curious paradox that drinking a lot of water can make you feel thirsty.	They usually have less money and more time to spend their money in. This is a paradox.
evp	paradoxical	adjective	1	C2	seeming very strange or impossible because of two opposite qualities or facts	a paradoxical position/situation	Women are entering the labor market and, paradoxical though it may seem, they still are, in many cases, in charge of the house.
evp	paragraph	noun	1	B1	a part of a text that begins on a new line and usually contains several sentences	Write a paragraph describing the garden.	I made many mistakes when I read the paragraph.
evp	parallel	adjective	1	C2	similar and happening at the same time	Parallel experiments are being conducted in both countries.	The diary was a dimensional portal to a parallel world he called Wonderland.
evp	parallel	noun	1	C2	a similarity	There are a number of parallels between our two situations.	It magnificently establishes a parallel between the tragic demise of an outstanding Ibo man named Okonkwo and the cultural as well as religious downfall of his entire clan and generally the disintegration of African tribal life.
evp	paramount	adjective	1	C2	more important than anything else	Safety, of course, is paramount.	The attitudes towards creating their own styles differ - some perceive it simply as a matter of taste, for others this visual reflection of personality is of paramount importance.
evp	parent	noun	1	A1	your mother or father	I'm going to meet Richard's parents for the first time this weekend.	I like this place because my parents live there.
evp	parenthesis	noun	1	B2	either of two curved symbols put around a word, phrase or sentence in a piece of writing to show that what is between them should be considered as separate from the main part	Biographical information is included in parentheses.	
evp	park	noun	1	A1	a large area of grass and trees in a city or town, where people can walk and enjoy themselves	Central Park	The park is near my house.
evp	park	verb	1	A2	to leave a vehicle in a particular place for a period of time	Where did you park?	On the way to the hospital, I decided to buy a present so I parked my car and bought some yellow flowers.
evp	parking	noun	1	B1	leaving a vehicle in a particular place for a period of time	a parking space/spot	You can't find a parking place when you need one and cars are a problem because of the pollution.
evp	parking	noun	2	B1	the places where a vehicle can be left	There's plenty of parking near the theater.	The next suggestion connected with this park is not to build any parking for cars.
evp	parking lot	noun	1	A2	an area for parking cars	I put the car in the parking lot.	The bad thing is that it is located in a street where there are a lot of other restaurants so the parking lot is very small.
evp	parliament	noun	1	B2	in some countries, a group of people who make the laws for the country	On Tuesday the country's parliament voted to establish its own army.	
evp	parrot	noun	1	B1	a tropical bird with a curved beak and colorful feathers which can be taught to copy what people say	We saw parrots flying wild in the jungle.	Send my regards to your family and to your lovely parrot too.
evp	part	noun	1	A1	a piece that combines with other pieces to form the whole of something	Which part of Buenos Aires do you live in?	It's the most beautiful part of Poland.
evp	part	noun	2	A2	some but not all of a thing	Elsa spent part of the day shopping.	[A] computer is part of your life.
evp	part	noun	3	B1	a character in a movie or play	He plays the part of the father in the movie version.	The main actor played the part of John, a poor man that becomes rich winning a prize.
evp	part	noun	4	B1	to be involved in an activity with other people	She doesn't usually take part in class activities.	Last month when we took part in a dance competition, I couldn't imagine that we were able to win, but we did.
evp	part	noun	5	B2	to be one of the people or things that are involved in an event or situation	People forget to wash their hands and that plays a part in spreading colds and flu.	Technology plays an important part in this situation, because I don't think that adults are playing computer games for Batman or Spiderman, for example, but for the special effects and the graphics.
evp	part	noun	6	B2	a piece of a machine or vehicle	aircraft parts	We were lucky to have some spare parts with us and finally Tom managed to repair his car]
evp	part	noun	7	C1	mostly or usually	I enjoyed it for the most part.	First of all, for the most part, people have to use computers in their jobs.
evp	part	noun	8	C2	done or experienced by someone	This is a major sacrifice on the part of the unions.	It seems that international sports competitions have always tended to attract a great amount of interest on the part of the media and have consistently been popular with sports fans the world over.
evp	part	noun	9	C2	partly	He is in part to blame for the accident.	Technology is in part to blame.
evp	part	noun	10	C2	most of a period of time	It took the better part of the afternoon to put those shelves up.	Major sporting competitions have been around for the better part of 2500 years, ever since the original Olympic Games were held in ancient Greece.
evp	part	noun	11	C2	If something is part and parcel of an experience, it is a necessary part of that experience and cannot be avoided.	Stress is part and parcel of the job.	This is true to a certain extent as food is often part and parcel of traditional rituals.
evp	part	verb	1	C2	If two sides of something part, they become separated, and if you part them, you make them separate.	Slowly her lips parted and she smiled.	There we were, three rather disheveled young men with a stench that parted a path for us like Moses did the Red Sea.
evp	part	verb	2	C2	If two people part, or if one person parts from another, they leave each other.	That summer, after six years of marriage, we parted.	It was on my seventeenth birthday that he gave me a little blue and shimmering box, but said I couldn't open it until the day we parted.
evp	partial	adjective	1	B2	not complete	The general has ordered a partial withdrawal of troops from the area.	In conclusion, I am very disappointed and therefore, I believe that I am entitled to a partial refund.
evp	partially	adverb	1	C1	not completely	partially cooked	Building a parking area outside the city center would partially solve this problem.
evp	participant	noun	1	C1	someone who is involved in an activity	All participants finishing the race will receive a medal.	I was one of the participants who helped a charity organization to raise money for the local hospital.
evp	participate	verb	1	B2	to take part in or become involved in an activity	She never participates in any of our discussions, does she?	So, all the students can participate in different activities.
evp	particle	noun	1	C2	a very small piece of something	particles of dust	They got their hands on some anthrax bacteria, grew them in petri dishes and with all her knowledge in biology managed to make anthrax spores. Her friends ground the clumps of spores into fine particles.
evp	particularly	adverb	1	B1	especially, or more than usual	Your ideas are particularly helpful.	I particularly enjoyed swimming in your new swimming pool.
evp	partly	adverb	1	B1	to some extent, but not completely	The house is partly owned by her father.	I suggest you spend your time partly in the countryside and partly in a city.
evp	partner	noun	1	A2	someone who you do something with, for example playing a sport, dancing, or working in class	Now discuss your ideas with your partner.	He is my best partner when we are playing games o] the internet.
evp	partner	noun	2	B1	someone who you live with and have a sexual relationship with	Partners are not invited to the office party.	Mike had been my partner for 3 years.
evp	partner	noun	3	B2	one of two or more people who own a business	junior/senior partner	Don't spend the evenings with your business partners, but with your women, children and friends.
evp	partnership	noun	1	B2	when two people or organizations work together to achieve something	She's gone into partnership with someone she used to work with.	I really need the money you're offering, mainly to set up that kindergarten school I've told you about, where I would work in partnership with a friend.
evp	part-time	adverb	1	B1	If you work part-time or do part-time work, you work for only some of the day or the week.	a part-time job	I can't afford to buy it so I'll look for a part-time job.
evp	party	noun	1	A1	a social event where people enjoy themselves by talking, eating, drinking, and dancing	a birthday party	I have the sp]ac to invite my friends to a party.
evp	party	noun	2	B1	an organization of people who share the same political beliefs and try to win elections	a political party	He organized a political party called "Kuo Min Tang of China" and started his revolution to overthrow the Chinese monarchy.
evp	pass	verb	1	A2	to succeed in a test or examination	I passed my driving test!	I hope you pass the exam.
evp	pass	verb	2	B1	to go past something or someone	I passed him on the stairs this morning.	I started to cross the street and then a car passed.
evp	pass	verb	3	B1	to go in a particular direction	A low flying plane passed over the stadium.	Then we passed through the quiet countryside.
evp	pass	verb	4	B1	to give something to someone	Could you pass the salt, please?	For me to cover the work, can you pass it to my friend Jittanun.
evp	pass	verb	5	B1	If a period of time passes, it happens.	Has ten minutes passed yet?	Five minutes passed and he didn't come, so I decided to go back inside.
evp	pass	verb	6	B2	to spend time doing something	We passed the time reading and swimming.	What's more, I would have to read to pass the time!
evp	pass	verb	7	B2	to officially approve of something and make it into a law or rule	The state assembly passed a law restricting the sale of guns.	I hope the government will pass a law which could control all these sort of things.
evp	pass	verb	8	C2	If a feeling passes, it goes away.	I know he's angry now but it'll pass.	My soul and my mind are frozen. I know that will pass.
evp	pass	verb	9	C2	to be more than a particular level	Donations have passed the one million mark.	
evp	pass	verb	10	C2	in sports, to throw or kick a ball to someone else	Edwards passes to Brinkworth.	Worth passed the ball to Earvin "Magic" Johnson, and with two players disturbing him, he shot a three-pointer that went in nicely.
evp	pass	verb	11	B2	to offer something to each person in a group of people	Would you pass the sandwiches around?	
evp	pass	verb	12	B2	to die	She passed away peacefully in her sleep.	It was said his father was very ill and his doctor had said his father could pass away in a few months.
evp	pass	verb	13	B1	to tell someone something that another person has told you	Will you pass the message on to Edward?	Lucy asked me to pass on greetings to you.
evp	pass	verb	14	B1	to give something to someone else	Could you pass the book on to Lara when you finished with it?	
evp	pass	verb	15	B2	to become unconscious	I passed out from the heat.	When she felt a hand on her right shoulder, she passed out.
evp	pass	noun	1	B1	an official document or ticket that allows you to do something	a bus/train pass	You can buy a one-day bus pass and you could visit many monuments and picturesque places.
evp	pass	noun	2	C2	in sports, when you throw or kick a ball to someone else	That was a great pass!	
evp	passage	noun	1	B2	a long, narrow space that connects one room or place to another	A passage between the buildings leads to the parking lot.	We saw a big house but it was old and locked. We found a secret passage between the trees and we got inside.
evp	passage	noun	2	B2	a short part of a book, speech, or piece of music	Several passages from the book were printed in a national newspaper before it was published.	She would read a passage for us every night before we fell asleep.
evp	passage	noun	3	C2	the movement or progress from one stage or place to another	It's a difficult passage from boyhood to manhood.	Work has always been a fundamental question in the life of man since the iron-age, it marks the passage from youth to adulthood and for most of us it can be a turning point.
evp	passenger	noun	1	A2	someone who is traveling in a vehicle but is not controlling it	airline/train/car passengers	We asked some other passengers but nobody had seen our suitcases.
evp	passion	noun	1	B2	a very powerful feeling, for example of attraction, love, hate, anger or other emotion	She saw the passion in his eyes.	Surfing is my passion.
evp	passion	noun	2	C1	when you like something very much	a passion for baseball	I always had a passion for writing and for 3 years I wrote many articles in my school magazine.
evp	passionate	adjective	1	B2	having very strong feelings or emotions	a passionate speech	I wrote a passionate article about how to protect our environment.
evp	passionately	adverb	1	B2	in a way that shows strong feelings or emotions	I walked into the room and found them arguing passionately.	We kissed each other passionately like the first time, and then we sat down.
evp	passport	noun	1	A2	an official document, often a small book, that you need to enter or leave a country	passport control	I have left my passport in the living room.
evp	passport	noun	2	C2	something that allows you to achieve something else	Education is a passport to a better life.	
evp	password	noun	1	B1	a secret word that allows you to do something, such as use your computer	Type in your password.	It wasn't me, it was my brother who stole my password.
evp	past	adjective	1	B1	having happened or existed before now	past relationships	I like the place because it has nice people, music and all sorts of things about past events.
evp	past	adjective	2	B1	used to refer to a period of time before and until the present	I've moved twice in the past ten years.	For the past four years I have been playing tennis and I have also done some courses about painting.
evp	past	noun	1	A2	the form of the verb which is used to show what happened in the past	The past of "change" is "changed."	
evp	past	noun	2	B1	the time before the present and all the things that happened then	the distant/recent past	In the past, we were best friends.
evp	past	noun	3	B1	all of the things that someone has done in their life	I knew nothing about his past.	After the film, we went to a restaurant called Adriano, and as the weather was cool, we had a glass of wine and started asking about each other's past.
evp	pasta	noun	1	A2	a food that is made from flour, water and sometimes eggs, and comes in many different shapes	Spaghetti, lasagne, ravioli and cannelloni are all types of pasta.	Usually we eat potatoes with some meat, or rice, or pasta with nice sausage.
evp	pastime	noun	1	C2	an activity that you enjoy doing when you are not working	Watching hockey is one of her favorite pastimes.	For many people music is merely a hobby or pastime, for others it's a job, and for yet others music is an important part of life.
evp	pastry	noun	1	C1	a mixture of flour, fat, and water that is cooked, usually used to cover or contain other food	I made some pastry for the pie.	The most popular sweet dish is called "Apfelstrudel", which is a bit of potato pastry filled with apples and nuts.
evp	pastry	noun	2	C1	a small cake that is made with pastry	We had coffee and pastries.	They don't want to miss their sweet pastries and "Sacher tortes", which Austria is famous for.
evp	pat	verb	1	C2	to touch a person or animal with a flat hand in a gentle, friendly way	She stopped to pat the dog.	All my mother's friends would come to our house, pat me on the head and say smiling: "Isn't she precious?!"
evp	patch	noun	1	C2	a small area that is different from the area around it	a bald patch	All my senses were sharpened, I could clearly see the tired smile of the bass-guitarist and wet patches on his T-shirt.
evp	patch	noun	2	C2	a piece of material that you use to cover a hole in your clothes or in other material	He had leather patches sewn on the elbows of his jacket.	And my mother cherishes her family heirloom handed down for generations - it's a quilt with sewn patches on it, representing what each of the women's strongest passion was. My mother sewed on her patch presenting her childhood fascination of The Beatles.
evp	patch	noun	3	C2	a small area of land used for a particular purpose	a cabbage/vegetable patch	My father had a big allotment with different vegetables like turnips, beet, etc., etc. [At] my house there was also a vegetable patch.
evp	patch	noun	4	C2	a difficult time	I think their marriage is going through a bad patch.	We all went through a rough patch when my mother turned out to have cancer.
evp	patch	verb	1	C2	to repair a hole in a piece of clothing or other material by sewing a piece of material over it	to patch your sweater	There were also clothes to be mended and patched, socks to be darned.
evp	patch	verb	2	C2	to try to improve your relationship with someone after you have had an argument	Has he managed to patch things up with her?	Then in bed I asked my goddess to make my parents patch up their quarrel.
evp	path	noun	1	A2	a long, narrow track between one place and another	a bike path	Follow it and you'll see a path which goes to the Park.
evp	path	noun	2	B2	a set of actions over a period of time, especially ones which lead to a goal or result	a career path	Maybe you could talk about your latest book "Murder on Avenue B" or about your path to fame.
evp	path	noun	3	C2	the direction that a person or vehicle moves in	a flight path	As you obviously cannot change the flight path towards or away from the airfield then we have to take alternative action.
evp	path	noun	4	C2	to meet someone, especially by accident	Mike has moved away and I doubt he'll ever cross my path again.	We are all socialized by our peers, family and other people who cross our path at one time or another.
evp	pathetic	adjective	1	C2	showing no skill, effort, or bravery	He made a rather pathetic attempt to apologize.	Sometimes it seems to me that the whole world has a book of platitudes, which everybody uses in order to communicate. I find it rather pathetic.
evp	pathetic	adjective	2	C2	sad and weak	Four times the pathetic little creature fell to the ground.	On Saturday morning, I see them sleeping rough under the bridges, a pathetic sight.
evp	patience	noun	1	B2	the quality of being able to stay calm and not get angry, especially when something takes a long time	You have to have such a lot of patience when you're dealing with kids.	I have patience with animals and care for them with love.
evp	patient	noun	1	B1	someone who is being treated by a doctor, nurse, etc.	a cancer patient	Secondly, I don't think that we can use the bus to carry a patient to the hospital in case of emergency.
evp	patient	adjective	1	B1	having patience	Dinner will be ready in half an hour - just be patient!	She is very patient with us and she tries to explain everything in detail for better understanding.
evp	patiently	adverb	1	B2	in a patient way	There was a line of people waiting patiently for the bus to
arrive.	She made her way slowly to the waiting room and patiently waited for the train to arrive.
evp	pattern	noun	1	B1	a design of lines, shapes, colors, etc.	The carpet was very old and had an unusual pattern.	In my country now legging[s are the new fashion. Some wear ones with stripes, or the black ones also have a zebra pattern.
evp	pattern	noun	2	B2	a particular way that something is often done or repeated	The pattern of family life has changed over the years.	If the alarm-clock had worked, everything would have followed its usual pattern but this time I woke up too late.
evp	pattern	noun	3	B2	a drawing, shape or set of instructions that helps you to make something	a dress/knitting pattern	Approximately three years ago I started to sew my own clothes. I always buy a pattern and follow every instruction given.
evp	pause	noun	1	B2	a short period in which something such as a sound or an activity is stopped before starting again	There will be a brief pause in the concert while the piano is moved into place.	I would like to correct the journalist by saying to him that RADIANT played for 1 hour without any pause.
evp	pause	verb	1	B1	to stop doing something for a short time	He paused for a moment.	After a while, she pulled herself together and paused for a minute.
evp	pause	verb	2	B2	to make a CD, DVD, etc. stop for a short time by pressing a button	Can you pause the movie for a few minutes? I'll be right back.	I paused the video I was watching, wondering what that knocking sound was.
evp	pavement	noun	1	B2	the hard, artificial surface covering a road	One lane of the highway will be closed over the weekend to repair cracked pavement.	In a second step, we can ask the mayor to put pavement o] the streets.
evp	paw	noun	1	B2	the foot of an animal that has claws or nails, such as a cat, dog or bear	I found paw prints in the kitchen.	My cat is only 2 years old. She is very beautiful with her long b]ush tail and soft paws.
evp	pay	verb	1	A1	to give money to someone for something you are buying or using, or because you owe them money	Helena paid for the meal.	I don't] have to pay. It's free.
evp	pay	verb	2	B1	to give someone money for the work that they do	She gets paid twice a month.	Those are the first things I am going to buy when I get paid.
evp	pay	verb	3	B1	to watch, listen to, or think about something carefully	You weren't paying attention, were you?	Larry is a very distracted boy. Everybody says that he should pay attention to what he is doing.
evp	pay	verb	4	B2	to visit a person or place, usually for a short time	We thought we'd pay Sam a visit while we're in Atlanta.	P.S: Wherever you decide to go, do not fail to pay me a visit!
evp	pay	verb	5	C2	to tell someone that you admire something about them	He paid her several compliments about her painting.	His companions always pay him compliments on his piano playing.
evp	pay	verb	6	C2	to suffer because of something bad you have done	He's certainly paying for his mistakes.	He hurried back to the castle and was so disgusted with her that he had her locked forever in a cell, to pay for what she had done.
evp	pay	verb	7	C2	to accept the unpleasant results of what you have done	If you abuse your body now, you'll pay the price when you're older.	When all is said and done, do contemporary sports events pose an advantage to athletes pursuing their physical excellence? I would dare to say no, unless he, or increasingly she, is prepared to pay the price in becoming a ready-made product for public consumption.
evp	pay	verb	8	C2	to thank someone or say that you admire someone or something, especially in public	He paid tribute to his former teacher.	Although it may not seem so] this is just a way of paying tribute to Mahatma Gand[h]i, since he always encouraged people to return to their traditions and customs.
evp	pay	verb	9	B1	to pay someone the money that you owe them	If you can buy the book for me, I'll pay you back tomorrow.	I put money on the table. If it is not enough, please tell me and I'll pay you back.
evp	pay	verb	10	B2	to pay all of the money that you owe	I've paid off the loan.	I promise you I'll pay off all my phone bills.
evp	pay	verb	11	B2	If something that you have done to try to achieve something pays off, it is successful.	All your hard work has obviously paid off!	I think people shouldn't underestimate the importance of books and I am sure it will finally pay off!
evp	pay	noun	1	B1	the money you receive for doing a job	Did you get a pay increase?	The pay is good, but have you got a car to get everywhere?
evp	payable	adjective	1	C1	describes something to be paid	Rent is payable monthly.	We were informed by you that there would be nothing extra to be paid but in fact several admission fees were payable.
evp	payable	adjective	2	C1	If a check is payable to a person, that person's name is written on the check and the money will be paid to them.	Checks should be made payable to "Express Enterprises."	Please make your check payable to "Mr. C. ZHANG."
evp	payment	noun	1	B2	an amount of money paid	You can pay in full now or twelve monthly payments.	Now people can buy or sell things from their home. [T]hey don't have to go to the bank, if they want to make a payment.
evp	payment	noun	2	B2	the act of paying	They will accept payment by credit card.	Fina[l]ly, we employees have been facing delays on payment of our wages.
evp	PC	noun	1	A2	personal computer	The price of a PC has been falling.	I want to sell my old PC. [I]t's 2 years old.
evp	pea	noun	1	B1	a round green seed, several of which grow in a pod, eaten as a vegetable	frozen/dried peas	I had a fish meal with some vegetables: peas, beans, carrots and lettuce.
evp	peace	noun	1	B1	calm and quiet	You'll need peace and quiet to study.	I saw a lot of primitive people who live in peace with the rainforest.
evp	peace	noun	2	B2	when there is no war, violence or arguing	peace talks	World peace was being threatened by the Gulf War, major countries were taking sides and preparing to fight each other, millions of lives were in danger but no one seemed to care enough.
evp	peace	noun	3	C2	a feeling that you do not need to worry about anything	We lock our doors and windows at night for peace of mind.	After all, successfully earning your living guarantees peace of mind.
evp	peaceful	adjective	1	B1	quiet and calm	a peaceful afternoon/place	This village is in a peaceful location with a sandy beach.
evp	peaceful	adjective	2	B2	without violence	a peaceful demonstration/protest	Leipzig is well-known in the world because of the beginning of the peaceful revolution in 1989 in Germany.
evp	peacefully	adverb	1	B2	in a peaceful way	He died peacefully at home.	There were a beautiful bride and a handsome bridegroom who were sleeping peacefully with smiles on their faces.
evp	peach	noun	1	B1	a round fruit with sweet yellow flesh that has a lot of juice, a slightly furry red and yellow skin and a large seed in its center	Would you like peaches and cream for dessert?	I enjoy eating cool summer fruit, such as melon, water-melon, peaches and apricots.
evp	peak	noun	1	B1	the top of a mountain, or the mountain itself	snow-covered peaks	You can walk or ride a horse to reach the peak.
evp	peak	noun	2	B2	the highest level or value of something	peak travel times	The situation gets worse, especially during peak hours, when people go to work or school and when they return home.
evp	peanut	noun	1	B1	an oval-shaped nut with a thin brown shell	peanut oil	I went to the supermarket where I bought some peanuts, cheese dip and a bottle of soda.
evp	pear	noun	1	A2	an oval-shaped, pale green or yellow fruit	We had a delicious dessert of pears in cider.	I want to buy melons, tomatoes, apples and pears.
evp	peasant	noun	1	C1	a poor person who works on the land, usually in a poor country	a peasant farmer	Monteiro made a lot of trips to see and speak with fishermen and peasants.
evp	peculiar	adjective	1	B2	unusual and strange, sometimes in an unpleasant way	She has the most peculiar ideas.	Yesterday I had a birthday and my friend Pat suggested that I should visit a fortune-teller. We went along to visit the most peculiar woman I have ever met in my life.
evp	peculiar	adjective	2	C2	belonging to or relating to a particular person or thing	Her accent is peculiar to the region.	The warm atmosphere obliterated every trace of shyness peculiar to the somewhat inhibited Swedes.
evp	pedal	noun	1	B2	a part of a machine that you press with your foot to operate or move the machine	the brake pedal	It has a comfortable seat, big pedals and a w]onderfu inscription "RIDER".
evp	pedestrian	noun	1	B1	a person who is walking and not traveling in a vehicle	a pedestrian crossing	There aren't cars in the city, because the roads are only for pedestrians.
evp	peel	verb	1	B2	to remove the skin of fruit and vegetables	Peel and chop the onions.	We are a family of four and everybody peels vegetables, does the washing-up and makes coffee.
evp	peel	verb	2	C2	If a layer or covering peels, it slowly comes off, and if you peel a layer or covering, you remove it slowly and carefully.	The posters were peeling away from the damp walls.	The building that housed the school was run down, with paint peeling off the walls and all the furniture like chairs and tables falling apart.
evp	peel	verb	3	C2	to watch carefully for someone or something	Keep your eyes peeled, he should be here any minute.	Ever since, I try to keep my eyes peeled for anything similar.
evp	peer	noun	1	C1	someone who is the same age, or who has the same social position or abilities as other members of a group	Most teenagers want to be accepted by their peers.	It could be a little boring, especially when you are young and all you want is to be with your peers, stay out all night] get back early in the morning and sleep until afternoon.
evp	peer	verb	1	C2	to look carefully or with difficulty	She peered at me over her glasses.	Slightly opening the door, she peered inside: a small shaft of moonlight passing through the curtain lit the small room: there was nobody inside, and the phone on the old desk was silent.
evp	peer pressure	noun	1	C2	the influence of people who are of a similar age or in a similar situation to you	When it comes to fashion, peer pressure can be intense.	To sum up, although young people face many problems and restrictions, such as peer pressure, excessive homework and their parents' prohibitions, they overcome all the barriers and enjoy their life exploiting to the full all the advantages of their age and character.
evp	pen	noun	1	A1	a long, thin object that you use to write or draw in ink	If you write in pen, or you won't be able to erase mistakes.	We have to bring with us a notebook, a pen and a pencil.
evp	penalty	noun	1	B2	a punishment for doing something that is against a law or rule	The violation carries a penalty of up to three years in prison.	Although, the government can i]ncreas the penalties for neglectful driving. In this regard, police officers are already paying more attention to drunk drivers.
evp	penalty	noun	2	B2	an advantage given in some sports to a team or player when the opposing team or player breaks a rule	The referee awarded a penalty kick.	After twenty more minutes of playing or I should say fighting, none of us could score and finally the match had to be decided by penalties.
evp	pencil	noun	1	A1	a long, thin, wooden object with a black or colored point that you write or draw with	a box of colored pencils	You must bring a pencil with you.
evp	penguin	noun	1	B1	a large, black-and-white sea bird that swims and cannot fly	A row of penguins stood at the water's edge.	It's wonderful, you can see the whales swimming in the sea, the sea lions lying on the beach and the penguins.
evp	penny	noun	1	B1	a coin or unit of money with a value of one hundredth of a dollar	Have you got a penny? The bill comes to $14.01 and I don't have one.	What about those who haven't any money? . . . Sometimes we can give them a few pennies, but most of all we are trying not to see them.
evp	pen pal	noun	1	A2	someone who you write to regularly but have never met	I once had a pen pal in Jamaica.	Dear Teacher: I'd like an Australian pen-pal. I'll write to him twice a week.
evp	pension	noun	1	B2	a sum of money paid regularly by the government or a private company to a person who has stopped working because they are old or ill	a pension plan	Moreover, you'll have to pay attention to your health, if you don't want to die before you get your pension.
evp	people	noun	1	A1	more than one person	Many people never get any exercise.	I like talking to people about music, films and books.
evp	people	noun	2	C1	all the ordinary people in a country	The rebels have gained the support of the people.	John Paul II is one of the few popes - if not the only one - to have actually been in contact with the people.
evp	pepper	noun	1	A2	a black, gray, white or red powder produced by crushing a type of dried berry and used to give food a spicy flavor	freshly ground black pepper	You put the chicken in the oven, but before you do that] you put salt and pepper or a piece of bacon on top of the chicken.
evp	pepper	noun	2	B1	a hollow green, red or yellow vegetable that tastes mild or a similar vegetable that tastes hot	green/red/bell peppers	I eat every kind of vegetable - carrots, green peppers...
evp	perceive	verb	1	C1	to think of something or someone in a particular way	The British are often perceived as being very formal.	However, travelling with parents or other family members is generally perceived as less exciting and interesting than travelling with friends.
evp	perceive	verb	2	C2	to notice something that is not easy to notice	We perceived a faint light in the distance.	I could perceive a dim light through the shutters but immediately afterwards it disappeared.
evp	percent	adverb	1	B1	for or out of every 100, shown by the symbol %	You got 20 percent of the answers right - that means one out of every five.	It is assumed that 78 percent of those who use this restaurant are businessmen.
evp	percentage	noun	1	B2	an amount of something, often expressed as a number out of 100	What percentage of women return to work after having a baby?	If "today's youngsters" are asked where they would like to have lunch, a high percentage of them will probably answer "McDonalds".
evp	perception	noun	1	C2	what you think or believe about someone or something	The public perception of him as a hero is surprising.	Today's royalty is a lot less respected and the media influence of modern times has shaped and transformed much of our perception.
evp	perceptive	adjective	1	C2	quick to notice or understand things	a perceptive writer	Both incidents show how perceptive Lucy is.
evp	perfect	adjective	1	A2	without fault, or as good as possible	a perfect day/evening	I bought a mobile phone. It's perfect for me.
evp	perfect	adjective	2	B1	exactly right for someone or something	You'd be perfect for the job.	On one hand, a small school in the countryside is great because it is in a quiet place that is perfect for studying.
evp	perfect	adjective	3	C2	used to emphasize a noun	His suggestion makes perfect sense.	When the visit is a grandmother with whom you have nothing to talk about I don't think there is much you can do about it. But if you wake up in the morning and the first thing you see in front of you is the face of a perfect stranger with wrinkles all over the place staring at you with motherly eyes... what would be your first reaction? Yell, of course!
evp	perfect	noun	1	B2	the tense of a verb that shows action that has happened in the past or before another time or event	the present/past perfect	
evp	perfect	verb	1	C2	to make something as good as it can be	I've spent hours perfecting my speech.	Instead, it matters how far they get with perfecting their skills.
evp	perfection	noun	1	C1	when someone or something is perfect	She strives for perfection in everything she does.	Moreover, he is hard-working and always strives for perfection.
evp	perfectly	adverb	1	B1	in a perfect way	The jacket fits perfectly, the skirt, not so well.	I like wearing skirts made out of denim because they fit me perfectly.
evp	perfectly	adverb	2	B2	used to emphasize the word that follows	To be perfectly honest, I don't care any more.	I told them I hadn't brought a map because I knew the way perfectly well.
evp	perform	verb	1	B1	to entertain people by acting, dancing, singing, playing music, etc.	She composes and performs her own music.	Later a band performs and everybody starts to dance and sing.
evp	perform	verb	2	B2	to do a job or a piece of work	Computers can perform a variety of tasks.	The technology of computers can produce special effects i] films and cartoons, it can also be used to perform some kinds of surgery.
evp	performance	noun	1	B1	acting, dancing, singing, or playing music to entertain people	a performance of Arthur Miller's play, "The Crucible"	I was sure that the legendary instrument that the great player used during his performances had to be very big, as the box is.
evp	performance	noun	2	B2	how successful someone or something is	The new suits help swimmers to improve their performance.	I do some exercises in order to improve my performance in the water.
evp	performer	noun	1	B1	someone who entertains people by acting, singing, dancing or playing music	He's a brilliant performer.	We are going to watch "Bodygu[a]rd", which has so many famous performers.
evp	perfume	noun	1	A2	a liquid with a pleasant smell, usually made from oils taken from flowers or spices, which is often used on the skin	What perfume are you wearing?	I got nice trousers, books and perfume.
evp	perhaps	adverb	1	A2	used to show that something is possible or that you are not certain about something	He hasn't written to me recently - perhaps he's lost my address.	What about Saturday or perhaps Friday?
evp	period	noun	1	B1	a length of time	Her work means that she spends long periods away from home.	Hi Jo, I've seen a restaurant is looking for a waitress during the period from June to August.
evp	period	noun	2	B1	in school, a division of time in the day when a subject is taught	We have six periods of science a week.	After the period, when the bell rang, I stayed in the class to ask some questions and my new teacher gave me some explanations.
evp	period	noun	3	B1	a mark (.) that is put at the end of a sentence, or at the end of a word that has been shortened		
evp	perk	noun	1	C1	something special in addition to the money you are paid that you are given because of your job	Free child care for preschool children of employees was a popular perk.	The economy nowadays is so technologically driven it is common belief that having a job in the computer industry means high pay and perks.
evp	permanent	adjective	1	B1	lasting or continuing for a long time or forever	She is looking for a permanent place to stay.	I am a permanent member of the Fear factor club.
evp	permanently	adverb	1	B2	always and forever	I seem to be permanently broke.	Although I am not permanently employed, I found it very interesting to help skilled instructors teach other people to swim and surf.
evp	permission	noun	1	B1	when you allow someone to do something	She gave him permission immediately.	My parents didn't give me permission to go but I really wanted to.
evp	permit	verb	1	B1	to allow something	Photography is not permitted inside the museum.	My parents permitted me to go!
evp	permit	verb	2	C1	to make something possible	The game starts at 3 pm, weather permitting.	It offers barbecue (hot meal), disco, and most students agreed (80 percent), and a swimming pool which can be enjoyed by everyone as long as the weather permits.
evp	permit	noun	1	C1	an official document that allows you to do something	a work permit	I am able to start as soon as possible and due to my grandfather being Italian also have dual nationality, which means that I don't even need a work permit.
evp	perseverance	noun	1	C2	continued effort and determination	Hard work and perseverance do pay off in the end.	Would we be still living as our ancestors used to live if people like Einstein, Volta, Newton and Galileo had not had the perseverance and intelligence that allowed them to discover things such as the theory of relativity?
evp	persist	verb	1	C2	If an unpleasant feeling or situation persists, it continues to exist.	If symptoms persist, consult a doctor.	In my opinion her achievement is based on the fact that she did manage to alter the image of a handicapped person which persisted in many minds.
evp	persist	verb	2	C2	to continue to do something although it is annoying other people	He persists in calling me Jane, even though I've corrected him twice.	Most surprising perhaps is the fact that although many people are aware of the shortage of drinkable water, they persist in either leaving the tap running or just consume water when it is unnecessary, something that in my opinion is inexcusable.
evp	persistence	noun	1	C2	when someone or something persists	He has been campaigning for better highway safety for years - you have to admire his persistence.	A reward for months of effort and persistence had at last arrived.
evp	persistent	adjective	1	C2	continuing to do something in a determined way	He can be very persistent when he wants something.	I learned how to make the most out of failure, how to be persistent in my efforts and strive for excellence.
evp	person	noun	1	A1	a human being	He's a very dangerous person.	She's a very good person. I really like my friends.
evp	person	noun	2	B2	If you do something in person, you go somewhere to do it yourself.	You have to pick up the document in person.	I am looking forward to meeting you in person.
evp	personal	adjective	1	B1	relating to or belonging to a particular person	I can only speak from my personal experience.	The only personal belongings he took was a black leather suitcase.
evp	personal	adjective	2	B1	designed for or used by one person	a personal computer	The activity that I like best is to surf the Web with a powerful personal computer.
evp	personal	adjective	3	B1	relating to the private parts of someone's life, including their relationships or feelings	He has a few personal problems at the moment.	I wanted to see him and talk to him about some personal problems.
evp	personal	adjective	4	C1	how clean a person's body, teeth, hair, etc. are	Her
personal hygiene
is not as good as it should be.	The ones that need medical services at home have hardly had anyone, and no one has helped them with personal hygiene.
evp	personality	noun	1	B2	the type of person you are, which is shown by the way you behave, feel and think	She has a very warm personality.	I mean, when she dances, she transmits strength and a big personality.
evp	personality	noun	2	B2	a famous person	The show is hosted by a popular TV personality.	What is more, you could take part in the festival without paying for it and meet some famous personalities from the world of music.
evp	personally	adverb	1	B1	used when you give your opinion	Personally, I think the show is going to be a great success.	Personally, I really like green spaghetti.
evp	personally	adverb	2	B2	done by or affecting one person and not someone else	These figures should be correct because I've checked them personally.	At the end of the concert, when it was after midnight and everyone had already left, the group came up to each of us (who helped out) and thanked us personally!
evp	personally	adverb	3	C1	to think that someone is criticizing you or to feel that a failure or bad situation is your fault	You shouldn't take everything so personally.	She tends to take things too personally, and sometimes she overreacts.
evp	personnel	noun	1	C1	the people who work for an organization	military personnel	We also employ 10000 workers in 10 factories across the country and additional administrative personnel.
evp	perspective	noun	1	C1	the way you think about something	Being unemployed has made me see things from a different perspective.	We have performed a class survey and interviewed Fordham residents, who see this issue from a different perspective.
evp	perspective	noun	2	C2	when things are in perspective, you think about them in a sensible and realistic way, and understand how important or unimportant they really are	You must keep things in perspective - the overall situation isn't really that bad.	I think it will enable me to see things more in perspective.
evp	persuade	verb	1	B1	to make someone agree to do something by talking to them a lot about it	If she doesn't want to go, nothing you can say will persuade her.	I had to persuade them to let me go and make enquiries.
evp	persuade	verb	2	B2	to make someone believe that something is true	Their argument failed to persuade me.	My friends persuaded me that everything was going well.
evp	persuasion	noun	1	C2	when you persuade someone	I'm sure she'll agree, she just needs a little gentle persuasion.	After a lot of persuasion I decided to take part in the Public Speaking.
evp	persuasive	adjective	1	C1	able to make people agree to do something	It's a very persuasive argument.	The presentation and the enthusiasm of the representatives was very persuasive and appealing.
evp	pessimistic	adjective	1	B2	always believing that bad things are likely to happen	The tone of the meeting was very pessimistic.	In his book, the most important thing is his character. He has never been pessimistic, he has never hated his parents.
evp	pet	noun	1	A1	an animal that someone keeps in their home	They have several pets - a dog, two cats and a guinea pig.	I like this place because I have lots of friends there] The people, houses, pets - everything is very good.
evp	petrified	adjective	1	B2	extremely frightened	I'm petrified of spiders.	I was petrified as well as confused.
evp	petty	adjective	1	C2	unimportant or not serious	petty details/concerns	Focusing on others makes us forget about our petty problems.
evp	pharmacist	noun	1	B2	someone who is trained to prepare or sell medicines	The pharmacist gave me some medicine.	
evp	pharmacy	noun	1	B1	a store or part of a store that prepares and sells medicines	I need to leave my prescription at the pharmacy.	Sometimes such a situation could happen when you need some food or something from the pharmacy.
evp	phase	noun	1	B2	a stage or period which is part of a longer period	The first phase of the project is likely to be completed by August.	Many people disagree about the best phase of a man's life but I definitely believe that the teenage years are the most beautiful of your life and I have many reasons for believing that!
evp	phenomenal	adjective	1	C2	extremely successful or showing great qualities or abilities	The movie has been a phenomenal success.	Now grown-up and minus a few dreams, the soaps give us the opportunity to dream but still connect to the stars since although the all look phenomenal they have their insecurities and flaws.
evp	phenomenon	noun	1	C1	something that exists or happens, usually something unusual	storms, lightning, and other natural phenomena	An unexpected phenomenon that someone called "drunkenness tourism" has appeared in the Mediter[r]anean villages and towns.
evp	philosopher	noun	1	B2	someone who studies or writes about the meaning of life	Plato was a Greek philosopher.	He wasn't a teacher, he wasn't a philosopher, but he was a great artist.
evp	philosophical	adjective	1	C2	relating to the study or writing of philosophy	a philosophical problem/question	Ralph started taking advice from Piggy and asking him philosophical questions.
evp	philosophical	adjective	2	C2	accepting unpleasant situations in a calm and wise way	She seems fairly philosophical about failing her exam.	One of the traits that attracts me most in the Balinese is their philosophical attitude towards life and their strong belief in Hindu gods and spirits.
evp	philosophy	noun	1	B2	the study or writing of ideas about the meaning of life, or a particular set of ideas about the meaning of life	Descartes is considered by many to be the father of modern philosophy.	We have been enthusiastic students of history, literature and philosophy for three years now.
evp	philosophy	noun	2	C1	a way of thinking about what should be done in life	My philosophy has always been to give those with ability the chance to progress.	Brighton college has changed its philosophy considerably over the past decades.
evp	phone	noun	1	A1	a piece of electronic equipment that you use to talk to someone who is in another place	Just then, his phone rang.	I want to buy a new phone for my brother because I broke his in an accident.
evp	photo	noun	1	A1	a picture produced using a camera	She took a lot of photos of the kids.	Sometimes I take photos of them and I feed these birds.
evp	photocopy	noun	1	B1	a copy of a document made with a machine which produces copies of documents using light and electricity	I made photocopies of my résumé and sent them to several companies.	As far as my level of English is concerned, I have obtained my Cambridge Examination and I enclose a photocopy of the certificate.
evp	photograph	noun	1	A2	a picture produced using a camera	a color/black-and-white photograph	I also want to take photographs of beautiful views.
evp	photograph	verb	1	B2	to take a picture using a camera	I prefer photographing people rather than places.	This city is not big as you know, so we don't have many interesting buildings to be photographed.
evp	photographer	noun	1	A2	someone who takes photographs, especially someone whose job is to do this	a fashion photographer	Yesterday, my new boyfriend gave me a camera. I really liked it because I want to be a photographer one day.
evp	photography	noun	1	A2	the activity or job of taking photographs	She's taking an evening class in photography.	I'm writing to you because I decided to take a photography course.
evp	phrasal verb	noun	1	B1	a phrase that consists of a verb in combination with a preposition or adverb or both, which has a different meaning from the meaning of its separate parts	"Look after," "work out," and "make up for" are all phrasal verbs.	Then we studied some phrasal verbs and I was supposed to read a text about feelings and relationships.
evp	phrase	noun	1	B1	a group of words that are used together, and which often have a particular meaning	Here are some phrases that may be useful in your essays.	[A] man dressed in black would ask me: "How many apples are there in the bedroom?" and I should answer with a scratch o] the nose and the phrase: "Three and seven quarters sir."
evp	physical	adjective	1	B2	related to the body	physical activity/fitness/exercise/strength/disabilities	Riding your bicycle is the best kind of physical activity.
evp	physical	adjective	2	C2	relating to real things that you can see and touch	a physical object	In other words, books as physical objects represent memories of specific times of my life and occasionally I enjoy recalling them by reading (again) some passages of already read books.
evp	physically	adverb	1	B2	in a way that relates to the body or someone's appearance	physically active/fit	Most people believe that team sports help children to become healthier, both mentally and physically, but there are those who have objections to this statement.
evp	physics	noun	1	A2	the scientific study of matter and energy and the effect that they have on each other	nuclear physics	I can't miss that class because it's a physics class and it's essential for me to go, because I think I can't study physics by myself.
evp	piano	noun	1	A2	a large musical instrument with a row of black and white keys which are pressed to play notes	We're buying a new piano.	My hobby is playing the piano.
evp	pick	verb	1	B1	to choose something or someone	Pick a card from the box to send to your sister.	[I]n this restaurant, there are all types of pizza o] a table and you can pick any pizza you want.
evp	pick	verb	2	B1	If you pick flowers or fruit, you take them off a plant or tree.	They were picking strawberries for twelve hours a day.	Two weeks is quite a long time so I am planning to go cycling i] the mountains, gather acorns, pick flowers, go hiking and watch the sun set.
evp	pick	verb	3	C2	to try to get back to an ordinary way of life after a difficult experience	After Ruth's death, Joe found it hard to pick up the pieces and carry on.	Now that I'm settled in my own country, picking up the pieces and trying to start a new life, I've decided that having a diary is not a bad idea after all.
evp	pick	verb	4	B2	to choose a person and criticize or treat them unfairly	The other boys pick on him because he's so small.	They gave themselves names and acted as gangs rather than just groups of friends, and started picking on younger people, or members of other gangs, trying to start fights with them.
evp	pick	verb	5	A2	to lift someone or something using your hands	If the baby starts to cry, pick her up and rock her.	I suddenly got an idea. I picked up a ball and kicked it. [T]he dog ran after it with the phone still in his mouth, and I followed him.
evp	pick	verb	6	A2	to get someone who is waiting for you, or to get something that you have left somewhere	I have to pick the children up from school.	I will pick you up and arrange everything.
evp	pick	verb	7	B2	to learn a new skill or language by practicing it rather than being taught it	When you live in a country you soon pick up the language.	I am a very good swimmer and I know some basic sailing techniques which I picked up while I was in Canada.
evp	picnic	noun	1	A1	a meal that you make and take with you somewhere to eat outside	If the weather's nice we could have a picnic in the park.	[We] sometimes go for a picnic.
evp	picture	noun	1	A1	a drawing, painting, or photograph of something or someone	Alex drew/painted a picture of my dog.	I like my bedroom, because there are a lot of windows, two armchairs, a lamp next to the bed, a table under the window, and some pictures on the wall.
evp	picture	noun	2	B1	a movie	Could this be the first animated movie to win a best picture award?	Now I can buy the DVD "Star Trek - The Motion Picture".
evp	picture	noun	3	B2	an idea of what something is like	After watching the news, I had a clearer picture of what was happening.	[The book gives a good picture of events that occurred during that period of history.
evp	picture	noun	4	B2	an image seen on a television or movie screen	We can't get a clear picture on the TV.	Another important point for me is that things like listening to music or watching TV sounds better and the pictures on TV are being improved, because the machines are becoming better.
evp	picture	noun	5	C2	used to say that someone understands a situation	Oh right, I get the picture.	If you use a photograph though, you can be sure that everyone will get the picture (pun intended) and probably remember the person you're talking about next time they see him.
evp	picture	noun	6	C2	involved in or aware of a situation	Marilyn planned the surprise party for her brother and her mother was in the picture all along.	Her father had never been in the picture, and no one expected him to show up - not ever.
evp	picture	verb	1	C1	to imagine something in a particular way	The house isn't at all how I had pictured it.	Picture this: one house, one bathroom, one bedroom, approximately 100 cameras, 9 people from all possible walks of life and no contact with the world outside.
evp	picturesque	adjective	1	B2	A picturesque place is attractive to look at.	the picturesque narrow streets of the old city	Poland is a really nice country, with many historical buildings and picturesque places.
evp	pie	noun	1	B1	a type of food made with meat, vegetables, or fruit covered in pastry and baked	Would you like some more apple pie?	I like apple pie and ice cream as a dessert.
evp	piece	noun	1	A2	a part that has come from something bigger	a piece of cake	After that, we can go to drink a cup of coffee and eat a piece of cake.
evp	piece	noun	2	A2	a single object of a particular type	a piece of fruit	You must bring two or three pencils, a piece of paper, crayons and a pencil sharpener.
evp	piece	noun	3	B1	a single amount of a particular type of thing	I have an interesting piece of information/news for you.	You can visit the churches, the ancient buildings, and some other interesting places. That's my piece of advice.
evp	piece	noun	4	B2	an example of artistic, written, or musical work	a beautiful piece of music	Traditionally, the most famous pieces of the Strauss repertoire will be performed creating a brilliant atmosphere.
evp	piece	noun	5	B2	to be very easy	The exam itself was a piece of cake.	The article was a piece of cake though I didn't expect to win.
evp	piece	noun	6	C2	If someone goes to pieces, they become so upset that they cannot control their feelings or think clearly.	He went to pieces when his mother died.	He was amazed at his ability to solve the problems as he came to them and not go to pieces, like Hooper did.
evp	piece	noun	7	C2	to try to get back to an ordinary way of life after a difficult experience	After Ruth's death, Joe found it hard to pick up the pieces and carry on.	Now that I'm settled in my own country, picking up the pieces and trying to start a new life, I've decided that having a diary is not a bad idea after all.
evp	piece	noun	8	C2	small things or jobs which are not connected or not very important	We've packed most of it up now, there are just a few bits and pieces left.	So, it's memories that make us keep odd bits and pieces.
evp	pig	noun	1	A1	a large pink, brown or black farm animal with short legs and a curved tail, kept for its meat	The meat produced from a pig is called pork, bacon or ham.	There is a small pink pig on it.
evp	pile	noun	1	B1	objects positioned one on top of another	a large pile of sand	It was like finding a needle in a pile of straw.
evp	pile	noun	2	B2	a lot of something	I've got a pile of work to do today.	He was very disappointed, he didn't want to leave but he had to because he had a pile of work waiting for him.
evp	pile	verb	1	B2	If something unpleasant piles up, you get more and more of it.	My work's really starting to pile up.	My work has piled up and I have to carry on.
evp	pill	noun	1	B1	a small, hard piece of medicine that you swallow	a sleeping pill	Don't forget your pills for your allergy.
evp	pillow	noun	1	A2	a soft object which you rest your head on in bed	Do you prefer a feather pillow or a foam pillow?	I left it under your pillow.
evp	pillow	noun	2	B1	a cloth bag filled with something soft which you sit on or lean against to make you comfortable		I believe that I'm going to put pillows on the sofas because the room is too simple.
evp	pilot	noun	1	A2	someone who flies an aircraft	an airline pilot	But if I want to be a pilot, I have to be good at English.
evp	pin	noun	1	B1	a small, thin piece of metal with a sharp point used for temporarily holding pieces of cloth together	I'll keep the patch in place on the jeans with pins while I sew it on.	
evp	pin	verb	1	B1	to fasten something with a pin	You can pin the notice to/(up) on the bulletin board.	Secondly, we need a big board. Everybody could pin information on it, for example the timetable, the menu for the canteen, or information about special events in and around the school.
evp	pine	noun	1	B2	a tall tree with long, thin leaves shaped like needles	a pine forest	After a few days, we came to a small lake surrounded by pine trees.
evp	pineapple	noun	1	B1	a large fruit with thick skin and sharp leaves sticking out of the top which is sweet and yellow inside	pineapple juice	[There is some special fruit here] like durian, pineapple, banana and so on.
evp	pink	adjective	1	A2	being a pale red color	pretty pink flowers	I want to use pink paint.
evp	pink	noun	1	A2	a pale red color	She's really likes pink.	I am going to use pink and orange to paint my bedroom.
evp	pinpoint	verb	1	C2	to say exactly what or where something is	It is difficult to pinpoint the exact time of death.	It is difficult to pinpoint the exact factors that lead to success and even more difficult to arrange them in any order of priority.
evp	pint	noun	1	B2	a measure for liquid equal to half of a quart, or about half a liter	a pint of milk/ice cream	It was lazy days with a few pints of Guin[n]ess and conversation, and house-hunting.
evp	pioneer	noun	1	C2	someone who is one of the first people to do something	one of the pioneers of modern science	Not only was he a bold pioneer by writing lyrics for rock songs in German as early as the late 1960s when the German music scene was still dominated by Anglo-American influences, but he was also concerned with German domestic and foreign politics.
evp	pipe	noun	1	B1	a long tube inside through which liquid or gas can move	The water pipe burst.	A good surprise would be if you told Anna you need her to help to fix the pipe in our house.
evp	pirate	noun	1	B1	someone who attacks ships and steals from them	The pirates held the ship's captain prisoner and demanded money for his release.	I'm crazy about pirates since I watched "Pirates of the Caribbean".
evp	pit	noun	1	C2	a large hole which has been dug in the ground	They dug a big pit to bury their garbage.	I could demonstrate to people how to create compost pits and use kitchen waste to generate compost for their gardens.
evp	pit	noun	2	C2	a large, hard seed that grows inside some types of fruit and vegetables	a cherry pit	
evp	pitch	noun	1	C2	the degree to which a sound or a musical note has a high or low quality	He was singing in a lower pitch because of his cold.	There are five vocalists that reached her level of performance that night and no one can imitate her because of the high pitch of the notes she can reach.
evp	pitch	verb	1	B2	to choose a place for a tent and put it there	The kids pitched a tent in the backyard.	After pitching my tent I could not wait to hike the moors.
evp	pitch	verb	2	C2	to throw something	She pitched a stone into the river.	
evp	pitch-black	adjective	1	C2	completely black	a moonless, pitch-black night	It was a warm night, the moon was high and millions of stars sparkled on the pitch-black sky.
evp	pitch-dark	adjective	1	C2	completely dark	In winter, it was already pitch-dark by 5.	It was pitch dark when we started to walk and soon we lost all sense of direction because of all the small paths that criss-cross the island.
evp	pitiful	adjective	1	C2	describes something that you consider is bad or not satisfactory or not enough	a pitiful excuse	Due to the social structure of late 20th century Western States, with the so-called nuclear family being the usual family unit, more and more old people are driven to senior citizen's homes where they lead a pitiful life in isolation neglected by their children and society in general.
evp	pizza	noun	1	A1	a large circle of flat bread baked with cheese, tomatoes, and sometimes meat and vegetables spread on top	a slice of pizza	I like pasta and pizza.
evp	place	noun	1	A1	a position, building, town, area, etc.	There are several places of interest to visit in the area.	My favorite place is the hotel near Olomouc.
evp	place	noun	2	A2	a home	We'll have the meeting at my place.	Can you come over to my place this afternoon?
evp	place	noun	3	B1	the seat where you sit in a theater, a class, a train, etc.	The children accepted their prizes and then went back to their places.	We looked for a place to sit and found one.
evp	place	noun	4	B1	an position at a school, on a team, in society, etc.	He hopes to win a place on the swim team.	I felt it was my chance so on Monday I ran to the club. [T]here were only 3 places left] and I will begin next Saturday.
evp	place	noun	5	B1	to happen	The concert takes place next Thursday.	A dance night will take place in the club soon.
evp	place	noun	6	B1	If you are in first/second/third, etc. place in a race or competition, that is your position.	He finished in fifth place.	To achieve first place, I have put a lot of effort into a project about the consequences of the use of plastic bags.
evp	place	noun	7	B2	instead of something	Try adding fruit to your cereal in place of sugar.	Both television and books are very important for our education, for our lives, but never one in the place of the other!
evp	place	noun	8	B2	to do something instead of someone else	If I can't make it to the theater that night you can take my place.	First of all, it had been written that Danny Brook and Tina Truelove were starring, but Danny wasn't there and somebody else took his place.
evp	place	noun	9	B2	at the start of a situation	Why did you invite her in the first place?	In the first place, you were unknown people for me, but now you are my special foreign friends.
evp	place	noun	10	B2	in or to many different places	There were dirty dishes all over the place.	I am thinking of dog-dirt on the pavements, cans all over the place, and a lot of disgusting paintings on the walls in the public toilets, the underground and so on.
evp	place	noun	11	C2	in the correct position	The chairs are all in place.	I looked neat and clean even after the wildest games in the school yard, with all the ribbons that tied my long hair in place.
evp	place	noun	12	C2	If a rule, system, etc. is in place, it has started to exist.	There are now laws in place to prevent this from happening.	Let's take the example of Mexico City, where such restrictions have been in place since early 2000.
evp	place	noun	13	C2	to let someone know that they are not as important as they think they are	He was rather arrogant, but the other kids soon put him in his place.	
evp	place	noun	14	C2	not in the correct position	Why are my files all out of place?	It was awful getting back from school and seeing all my things out of place.
evp	place	noun	15	C2	not right or suitable for a particular situation	Everyone else was wearing jeans and I felt completely out of place in my office clothes.	This does not mean everybody is wearing tuxedos and dresses but you might be out of place just wearing shorts and a shirt.
evp	place	noun	16	C2	When events or details that you did not understand before fall into place, they become easy to understand.	When Jo told me she had a twin sister, everything fell into place.	
evp	place	verb	1	B2	to put something somewhere carefully	She placed the letter in front of me.	There was a breakfast table waiting for him in the pool. They had actually placed the table in the pool.
evp	place	verb	2	C1	to arrange to have an advertisement/order, etc.	She placed an ad for a housekeeper in the local paper.	Study materials: as before, place an advertisement. There are always students willing to sell their old books.
evp	place	verb	3	C1	to cause someone to be in a situation	One stupid action has placed us all at risk.	Lack of education placed them in the lowest range of salaries at that time.
evp	place	verb	4	C2	to give something emphasis/importance, etc.	They place a lot of importance on qualifications.	They want to fit in]t their peer group - having idols and placing importance upon clothes is not new for this age.
evp	plague	noun	1	C2	a serious disease that spreads quickly and kills a lot of people	They died in the plague.	Unfortunately, due to the basic conditions of hygiene, health care and even the constant wars and the consequent slaughtering, no one expected to get too old, especially in the Middle Ages, when the plague was running wild and free and teenage miscarriages, resulting in the progenitor's death, were common.
evp	plague	verb	1	C2	to make someone suffer for a long time	He's been plagued by bad luck ever since he bought that house.	On six days of the week, low-flying aircraft follow their course only metres above our heads, leaving behind a trail of citizens plagued by the constant incredibly loud noise.
evp	plain	adjective	1	B1	simple and not complicated	a plain style of architecture	I like wearing plain clothes.
evp	plain	adjective	2	B1	not mixed with other colors, substances, etc.	plain yogurt	The wall didn't have any patterns, nothing but plain light blue. So I've decided to buy some pictures to put on it.
evp	plain	adjective	3	C2	obvious and clear	It's plain that she doesn't want to talk to me about it.	The former can be seen in her (somewhat violent, I daresay) reaction to the dismissal of the two Jewish girls on Lord Darlington's order: she made it plain that she would leave if they should leave.
evp	plain	adjective	4	C2	A plain person is not attractive to look at.	His wife is quite plain.	Lisa had a delicate frame and looked rather plain.
evp	plan	noun	1	A2	an arrangement for what you intend to do or how you intend to do something	vacation plans	I talked about my plans with my friends, and we listened to some CDs.
evp	plan	noun	2	B2	a drawing of a building, town, area, vehicle, machine, etc., that only shows its shape from above, its size, and the position of important details	an architect's plans	He uses a computer to help him draw 3D plans, electrical circuit plans and that kind of thing]
evp	plan	verb	1	A2	to intend to do something	He plans to go to college next year.	I plan to paint it icy blue.
evp	plan	verb	2	B1	to think about and decide what you are going to do or how you are going to do something	She helped them plan their route.	Dear Dan, I have planned a wonderful night for us.
evp	plane	noun	1	A1	a vehicle that flies and has at least one engine and wings	a passenger/cargo/private plane	I will travel there by plane.
evp	planet	noun	1	B1	a large, round object in space that moves around the sun or another star	the planet Earth/Venus	It's about the planet Mars, because I'm very interested in space.
evp	planning	noun	1	B2	the activity of thinking about and deciding what you are going to do or how you are going to do something	Events like these take months of careful planning.	It seems like you have been doing a lot of planning for our trip next week.
evp	planning	noun	2	C1	the development of policies and plans for an area, including how the land is used for buildings, roads, transportation, etc.	urban/city planning	Town planning and some income-tax rules are two other prominent factors.
evp	plant	noun	1	A1	a living thing that grows in the soil or water and has leaves and roots, especially one that is smaller than a tree	garden/greenhouse/indoor plants	There are different plants, trees, flowers and a lake.
evp	plant	verb	1	B1	to put a plant into the ground or into a container of earth so that it will grow	We planted trees and bushes in our new garden.	The house is beside a small lake and surrounded by all sorts of different flowers my aunty had planted.
evp	plant	verb	2	C2	to make someone start thinking something	I was confident till you planted doubts in my mind.	While a society is trying to plant the idea of "living together," at the same time, the short-term resolution for this problem should be considered.
evp	plastic	noun	1	A2	a light, artificial substance that can be made into different shapes when it is soft and is used in a lot of different ways	Most children's toys are made of plastic.	It's small and it's made of plastic and glass.
evp	plastic	adjective	1	A2	made of plastic	a plastic bag/box/cup	You need to bring a brush, pencil, paints, a plastic bag and some money to pay for the lesson.
evp	plate	noun	1	A1	a flat, round object that is used for putting food on	paper/plastic/china plates	Can you bring me 3 plates and 3 cups because I don't have enough at home.
evp	platform	noun	1	A2	the area in a station where you get on and off a train	the train/subway platform	There were no people waiting on the platform and when he went through the station building] he noticed that it was almost empty.
evp	platform	noun	2	B2	a raised surface for people to stand on	a viewing platform	It was dangerous, but I knew I had do it, bungee jumping! My instructor said 1, 2, 3, and then he said : "Go", so I jumped from the platform where I was standing.
evp	platform	noun	3	C2	a way of telling the public about your opinions	Basically, he uses the newspaper as a platform for airing his political views.	The artists in the music and entertainment industry especially have such a powerful platform for expression, but seldom do we see them use it to bring about unity, peace and brotherhood in the world; instead their music and message is about self-indulgence and gratifying their own personal needs.
evp	plausible	adjective	1	C2	If something that someone says or writes is plausible, it could be true.	a plausible excuse/explanation	All these points are strong and their theory is certainly plausible, but if we take a look at the subject from a different perspective, things may not be so clear anymore.
evp	play	verb	1	A1	When children play, they spend time enjoying themselves with toys and games.	The children are playing outside.	I watch TV, play with my sons and when I have to sleep, [I lie on the sofa.
evp	play	verb	2	A1	When you play a sport or game, you take part in it.	You play tennis, don't you Sam?	I can go to the park and play tennis and golf.
evp	play	verb	3	A2	to make music with a musical instrument	He plays the piano.	I can play the guitar.
evp	play	verb	4	A2	to make a radio, CD, etc. produce sounds	Could you play that last track again?	It showed videos and played mp3.
evp	play	verb	5	B1	to be a particular character in a movie or play	In the film version,  Branagh played the part of the father.	The main actor played the part of John, a poor man who becomes rich.
evp	play	verb	6	B1	to compete against a person or team in a game	Who are Aston Villa playing next week?	I'm going to have a game with my football team in Munich. It's very important, because we will play in the final match.
evp	play	verb	7	B2	to deceive someone in order to make them laugh	I played a trick on her and pretended I'd forgotten her birthday.	His best friend John couldn't put up with Pat always revealing his secrets, so decided to play a trick on him.
evp	play	verb	8	B2	to be one of the people or things that are involved in an event or situation	Alcohol plays a part in around 60% of violent crime.	Technology plays an important part in this situation, because I don't think that adults are playing computer games for Batman or Spiderman, for example, but for the special effects and the graphics.
evp	play	verb	9	C2	to play a piece of music by remembering the notes	She plays all the songs by ear.	As the years went by, she found it hard to cope with her slow headway in classical piano and her endlessly unfinished songs played by ear.
evp	play	verb	10	C2	to decide how to deal with a situation as it develops	I'm not sure what to tell Dad - I'll just have to play it by ear.	On the way to Cambridge, I had made up my mind to play it by ear.
evp	play	verb	11	C2	to be involved in an activity that could be dangerous	We're playing with fire if we continue with genetic modification of our food.	Stop playing with fire or World War 3 might come in the shape of a nuclear war.
evp	play	verb	12	C2	to not deal with a situation seriously or honestly	Someone's life is in danger here - we're not playing games.	I couldn't possibly get all that money together, and the kidnappers were not playing games.
evp	play	noun	1	A2	a story that is written for actors to perform, usually in a theater	We saw a play on Broadway.	It's important to me because tomorrow I'[m going to act in a play and I'll need it.
evp	play	noun	2	B2	when children enjoy themselves with toys and games	a play area	And it has a play area for children to enjoy themselves.
evp	play	noun	3	C2	behavior that is fair, honest, and does not take advantage of people	The public needs to feel a sense of fair play from the government.	He still believes in justice or just the rule of fair play.
evp	player	noun	1	A1	someone who takes part in a game or sport	a football/tennis player	My friend is a good football player.
evp	player	noun	2	A2	someone who plays a musical instrument	a piano/violin player	I got a spectacular guitar signed by Adrian Smith, Iron Maiden's guitar player.
evp	player	noun	3	A2	something that produces sound or video	a CD/DVD/MP3 player	Yesterday I left my mp3 player in your house.
evp	playground	noun	1	A2	an area designed for children to play in outside, especially at a school	We always play football in the playground.	I lost it in the playground.
evp	plea	noun	1	C2	a strong request	an emotional plea for forgiveness	"I promise, I'll never ever do it again" she nodded her head to emphasize the seriousness of her plea.
evp	plead	verb	1	C2	to say in a court of law if you are guilty or not guilty of the crime you have been accused of	He pleaded not guilty to five felony charges.	I have no idea if she was imprisoned, but certainly she pleaded not guilty and I'm sure she wasn't.
evp	plead	verb	2	C2	to ask for something in a strong and emotional way	He pleaded with her to come back.	He had pleaded with his superior that he wasn't familiar enough with that part of the country, all in vain.
evp	plead	verb	3	C2	to say something as an excuse	You'll just have to plead ignorance.	It is no fun being left alone to tackle a hitch when everybody else pleads ignorance to the given subject.
evp	pleasant	adjective	1	A2	enjoyable, attractive, friendly, or easy to like	a pleasant smile/person	You can spend a pleasant time in the fresh air.
evp	pleasantly	adverb	1	B1	in a pleasant way	They treated me pleasantly enough.	I was really pleasantly surprised that you're going to spend your summer holiday in Slovakia.
evp	please	verb	1	B1	to make someone feel happy	I only got married to please my parents.	Considering her loneliness, we made every effort to please her and to encourage her, because she was loved by everybody for her gentle, kind and lovely character.
evp	please	verb	2	C2	used to say that someone can have or do anything they want	Feel free to talk about anything you please.	Another is to have 20 years to do whatever you please!
evp	pleased	adjective	1	A2	happy or satisfied	Are you pleased about John's promotion?	I'm so pleased to know you are coming along.
evp	pleased	adjective	2	A2	a polite way of greeting someone when you meet them for the first time	I'm very pleased to meet you at last!	I will be pleased to meet you.
evp	pleasurable	adjective	1	C1	enjoyable	a pleasurable experience	Not that I would like to be locked up forever without a career or personal growth and just dozens of children of my own scampering around, but it certainly is pleasurable to drift off dreaming for a while in those huge castles.
evp	pleasure	noun	1	B1	a feeling of happiness or enjoyment	His visits gave his grandparents such pleasure.	It gave me a lot of pleasure.
evp	pleasure	noun	2	B1	an enjoyable activity or experience	It was such a pleasure to meet you.	It was a pleasure see you again after all those years.
evp	plight	noun	1	C2	an unpleasant or difficult situation	the plight of the sick and the poor	My brother's plight has always been a concern of mine.
evp	plot	noun	1	B2	the story of a book, movie, play, etc.	The movie has a very simple plot.	The website has only the name of the movie and a few lines about the plot.
evp	plot	noun	2	C2	a piece of land, often for growing food or for building on	a garden plot	Is there nothing we can do to prevent this little plot of nature we have left from being destroyed?
evp	plot	noun	3	C2	a secret plan to do something that is wrong, harmful, or illegal	a plot to assassinate the president	Yes, because politics usually implies some monkey business, and you can be certain that there is always someone trying to organize a plot to topple the Prime Minister.
evp	plug	noun	1	B1	a plastic or rubber object with metal pins, used to connect electrical equipment to an electricity supply	a three-prong/two-prong plug	We had to check every plug, switch, lights.
evp	plug	noun	2	B1	something you put in a hole to block it	He pulled out the plug and the water drained out of the sink.	
evp	plug	verb	1	B2	to connect a piece of electrical equipment to an electricity supply or to another piece of equipment	Could you plug the iron in for me?	It allows anybody to call from anywhere without having to plug it in a wall!
evp	plumber	noun	1	B2	someone whose job is to repair or connect water pipes, and things like toilets and bathtubs	When is the plumber coming to fix the leaking pipe?	In the past I worked as a plumber.
evp	plump	adjective	1	C2	slightly fat	a plump child	After two hours a plump nurse came in and took him to the doctor's office.
evp	plunge	verb	1	C1	to become lower in temperature, value, etc. very suddenly and quickly	Temperatures plunged below zero.	Five years later the German trend plunged and the Spanish followed, both reaching marks of 1.3 and 1.2 average children per family respectively.
evp	plunge	verb	2	C2	to fall or move down very quickly and with force	The car came off the road and plunged down the hillside.	The moment you plunge into the pool you no longer belong to yourself, you cut the smooth surface of the water, moving faster and faster, until you reach the end, exhausted but content with yourself.
evp	plunge	verb	3	C2	to push something very hard into something else	He plunged the knife into the man's stomach.	Eventually, they met again in Boston, and as Marco said, he felt as if somebody plunged a knife into his belly when he saw her after two years of separation.
evp	plunge	verb	4	C2	to start doing something with a lot of energy	Trying to forget about her, he plunged into his work.	The solution for her is then to leave everything and plunge into a new life with her Indian lover.
evp	plunge	noun	1	C2	to do something important or difficult, especially after thinking about it for a long time	We're finally going to take the plunge and buy a house.	Being unable to stand this mystery, I decided to take the plunge and follow him.
evp	plural	noun	1	A2	a word or form which expresses more than one	"Geese" is the plural of "goose."	
evp	plus	noun	1	B2	an advantage or a good feature	Your teaching experience will be a plus in this job.	All this should be a plus in developing our town and nearby villages into attractive places.
evp	p.m.	adverb	1	A1	used to refer to a time after midday but before midnight	We'll be arriving at about 4:30 p.m.	See you tomorrow at 7 p.m.
evp	pocket	noun	1	A2	a small bag for carrying things in, which forms part of a piece of clothing	a jacket/pants/coat pocket	Mary, last night I think I left my camera on your sofa because it's so small that it fell out of my pocket.
evp	pocket	noun	2	B1	a container which is sewn into or onto a bag or fixed to a seat or door in a vehicle	Sarah put her maps in the inside/outside pocket of her backpack.	
evp	pocket	noun	3	C2	the amount of money that you have for spending	I shouldn't have to pay for travel out of my own
pocket.	The prices are not too heavy on the pocket and the service is brisk, efficent and friendly.
evp	poem	noun	1	B1	a piece of writing, especially one which has short lines and uses words that sound similar	a book of love poems	This mysterious man used to write a lot of letters and poems to my grandmother.
evp	poet	noun	1	B1	someone who writes poems	Rimbaud was a nineteenth-century French poet.	Everyone in my group knows that I'm quite a good poet, so Peter asked me to read some of my poems.
evp	poetic	adjective	1	C2	relating to poetry	poetic language	It was not vulgar or ordinary; far from that, it was literary, it was poetic: it was pure art.
evp	poetry	noun	1	B1	poems in general as a form of literature	modern poetry	My town hall organized a poetry competition.
evp	point	noun	1	B1	an idea, opinion, or fact that someone says or writes	I'd like to discuss the first point in your essay.	Tomorrow I have another class exactly at the time of your class. I can't miss that class because it's a physics class. I know I may miss many important points but I promise you [I will get the best mark (result) in the next exam.
evp	point	noun	2	B1	a unit used for showing who is winning in a game or competition	With 3 games still to play, Manchester United is 5 points ahead.	We were losing by 1 point, I caught the ball and tried to throw it to my partner but...
evp	point	noun	3	B2	the thin, sharp end of something	the point of a needle	
evp	point	noun	4	B2	an opinion or fact that deserves to be considered seriously, or which other people agree is true	"She's always complaining that the office is cold." - "Well, she's got a point."	First of all, in your picture you can reveal the style of life of teenagers (I think it is a good point).
evp	point	noun	5	B2	the most important part of what someone says or writes	The point is, if you don't claim the money now you might never get it.	I'm in a hurry, so I will come directly to the point.
evp	point	noun	6	B2	the reason for or purpose of something	I'd try to explain to her how I feel but there's no point because she won't listen.	Obviously, there is no point in saying "famous people have a right to their own lives."
evp	point	noun	7	B2	a particular time or stage in an event or process	At one point, he seemed to completely forget what he was saying.	At that point, my tour finished and I returned home.
evp	point	noun	8	B2	a quality or ability which someone has	I know she's bossy but she has lots of good points.	I saw my life passing in front of me and realized that climbing is not my strongest point.
evp	point	noun	9	B2	the mark (.) that is used to separate the two parts of a decimal	One mile equals one point six (1.6) kilometers.	
evp	point	noun	10	B2	one of the marks on a compass	the points of the compass	
evp	point	noun	11	B2	to be going to do something very soon	I was at the point of walking out when he suddenly spoke to me.	In fact he simulated his death to escape from the police, who were on the point of catching him for his penicillin racket.
evp	point	noun	12	B2	partly	What he says is true up to a point.	I agree up to a point with the statement given, but if the journalists di]dn' follow them, people wouldn't know so much about them.
evp	point	noun	13	C1	something that someone is very good at	Cooking is not my strong point.	She's got a lot of strong points, more than weaknesses.
evp	point	noun	14	C1	to be certain that you always do a particular thing	He made a point of learning all the names of his staff.	I was not expecting to meet him that night, because I thought he would be busy and not have time to talk to anyone, but being so special as he is, he made a point of talking to everybody.
evp	point	noun	15	C2	a quality or ability which someone has	I know she's bossy but she has lots of good points.	"I wonder why Mr Co put up with her?" Ku mumbled. "But I suppose she had her good points."
evp	point	noun	16	C2	one of the marks on a compass	the points of the compass	In the summer time, people come from all the points of the compass to have a vacation here.
evp	point	noun	17	C2	not important or not connected with what you are talking about	The fact that he doesn't want to come is beside the point - he should have been invited.	
evp	point	noun	18	C2	If something someone says or writes is to the point, it expresses the most important things without extra details.	His report was short and to the point.	
evp	point	noun	19	C2	a subject that causes disagreement or makes people angry when it is discussed	Money is a sore point with him at the moment.	Although it is not a new phenomenon, it is more common - and a sore point - in our Society that, old people live alone and without any help.
evp	point	verb	1	A2	to show where someone or something is by holding your finger or a thin object toward it	She pointed at/to a bird flying overhead.	Everybody was pointing at me.
evp	point	verb	2	B1	to hold something so that it faces toward someone or something	He said that the man had pointed a knife at him.	As he got closer, one of the group's members, Paul, pointed a rifle at him.
evp	point	verb	3	B1	If something points in a particular direction, it is turned toward that direction.	The street sign points left.	
evp	point	verb	4	B2	to tell someone about some information, often because they do not know it or have forgotten it	He was planning a rock-climbing trip, till I pointed out that Carla is afraid of heights.	I would like to point out some incorrect information.
evp	pointless	adjective	1	C1	Something that is pointless has no purpose.	pointless arguments/conflict	Moreover, people who meet through e-mails and chatrooms can confirm that talking or sending messages to someone you can't see is pointless and boring.
evp	point of view	noun	1	B2	an opinion	I can certainly understand her point of view.	That is my point of view.
evp	point of view	noun	2	B2	a way of thinking about a situation	From the point of view of personal savings, the cut in interest rates is bad news.	In addition, it is not useful to keep animals in cages even from a scientific point of view.
evp	poison	noun	1	B2	a substance that can make you ill or kill you if you eat or drink it	Someone had put poison in her drink.	The third day they were in the forest, Pablo was hurt by a piece of wood with poison on it.
evp	poison	verb	1	B2	to try to kill someone by giving them a dangerous substance to drink or eat	He tried to poison his neighbors.	Therefore, Matthew decided to kill Pat. He poisoned Pat by putting poisonous ice-cubes into Pat's wine glass.
evp	poison	verb	2	B2	to put poison or a dangerous substance in something	They poisoned the city's water supply.	It poisons the air with its fumes and these damage the people's health.
evp	poisonous	adjective	1	B2	very harmful and able to cause illness or death	poisonous chemicals	On the other hand, the people in the future will probably wear clothes to protect themselves from the polluted air and water, the harmful ultra-violet rays from the sun and all the dangerous and poisonous gases or chemicals which are the result of a developed country.
evp	poisonous	adjective	2	B2	A poisonous animal uses poison in order to defend itself.	a poisonous snake	Some of the animals, like poisonous snakes, crocodiles, and lions, are kept in special cages.
evp	polar bear	noun	1	B2	a large, white bear that lives in areas near the North Pole	Polar bears can be very dangerous.	So it's very difficult to create real-life conditions for some animals, for instance for polar bears and eagles.
evp	pole	noun	1	C2	a long, thin stick made of wood or metal, often used to hold something up	tent poles	It showed two young women in t-shirts and shorts leaning against a big pole stating '90 miles to Cuba'.
evp	pole	noun	2	C2	to be complete opposites	They are poles apart in their attitudes to religion.	Soho at night seemed to be the nicest place on Earth, poles apart from my home town.
evp	police	noun	1	A2	the official organization that makes people obey the law and that protects people and places against crime, or the people who work for this organization	I think you should call the police.	We were dancing and then the police arrived, because of the loud music.
evp	policeman	noun	1	A2	a man who is a member of the police	His dad is a policeman.	Dear Ann: I left the documents in your house and I have to give them to the policemen.
evp	police officer	noun	1	A2	a male or female member of the police	There were several police officers at the scene.	Then, I saw a police officer on the corner of the street.
evp	police station	noun	1	A2	the office of the police in a town or part of a city	We went to the police station to report the theft.	My home is opposite the police station.
evp	policewoman	noun	1	A2	a woman who is a member of the police	She was a policewoman for over 30 years.	So a police woman went to find my suitcase.
evp	policy	noun	1	B2	a set of ideas or a plan of what to do in particular situations that has been agreed to officially by a group of people, a business organization, a government, or a political party	They believe that the European Community needs a common foreign and security policy.	In fact, more and more countries are creating new environmental policies.
evp	policy	noun	2	C1	an agreement that you have with an insurance company	Does your policy cover replacement costs?	Working in an insurance company often means "selling the air," but when you see that a person gets out of a difficult situation just because he or she has an insurance policy, you begin to love this job.
evp	polite	adjective	1	A2	behaving in a way that is not rude and shows that you do not only think about yourself	I'm afraid I wasn't very polite to her.	The new teacher is very polite.
evp	politely	adverb	1	B1	in a polite way	He thanked them politely.	I tried to control myself and started to speak politely and in a friendly way.
evp	politeness	noun	1	B2	the state of being polite	We were impressed by their politeness.	Moreover, I have other qualities such as politeness, thus I am capable of looking after members of the public.
evp	political	adjective	1	B1	relating to politics	political leaders/parties	I'm very interested in Italian political life, and I want to get news all the time.
evp	politician	noun	1	B1	someone who works in politics, especially a member of the government	Churchill was a distinguished politician.	It was now the third month since the gangster had kidnapped her, because of her being the daughter of an important politician.
evp	politics	noun	1	B1	ideas and activities relating to how a country or area is governed	He has little interest in local politics.	It's a comedy program. They usually make jokes about politics or football players.
evp	pollute	verb	1	B2	to make water, air, soil, etc. dirty or harmful	We need a fuel that won't pollute the environment.	Most of them don't pollute the environment, and they don't create traffic jams on the roads.
evp	pollution	noun	1	B1	damage caused to water, air, etc. by harmful substances or waste	air/water pollution	There is less pollution than in the city and it is quieter too.
evp	pond	noun	1	B2	an area of water smaller than a lake, often artificially made	a duck pond	After that, we'll visit "Suizenji-Park" which is a real Japanese Garden with a pond and many kinds of flowers and trees.
evp	ponder	verb	1	C2	to think carefully about something	He pondered what might have happened if he hadn't gone home.	However, I am still pondering and I am still not quite sure of what it means and so I asked myself, would climbing a mountain be a challenge for me?
evp	pony	noun	1	C1	a small horse	I have a pony.	The forest is inhabited by wild bears, wild ponies, golden eagles and non-poisonous snakes.
evp	pool	noun	1	A2	an area of water that has been made for people to swim in	The hotel has two outdoor pools.	Come with shorts that can get wet because after we paint my bedroom, we'll go to my pool.
evp	pool	noun	2	B1	a game in which two people use long, thin sticks to hit colored balls into holes around the edge of a table	We played pool all evening.	I had a pool table in my bedroom and I had a lot of videogames.
evp	pool	noun	3	B2	a small area of water or a small amount of liquid on a surface	We dipped our feet in a shallow pool by the rocks.	When I came into the kitchen, I saw a pool of blood o] the floor.
evp	poor	adjective	1	A1	having very little money or few possessions	Most of these people are very poor.	It cost 500 Euro so it isn't for poor people.
evp	poor	adjective	2	A2	used to show sympathy for someone	The poor girl didn't have any friends.	It was about one poor boy who lost his parents at a really young age.
evp	poor	adjective	3	B2	of very low quality	poor health	But the quality of the food was poor.
evp	poor	adjective	4	B2	not having much skill at a particular activity	Her spelling has always been poor.	Since I was a teenager, I've often drawn and painted but without any kind of teaching, so my technique is poor.
evp	poor	adjective	5	B2	If something is poor in a particular substance, it has very little of the substance.	Avoid foods which are high in calories but poor in nutrients.	They couldn't avoid a diet poor in vitamins, because of the shortage of food.
evp	poor	noun	1	C1	people who are poor	She spent her life working with the poor.	It is widely believed that under his management, Greece advanced economically and socially, made steps forward concerning the relationships with other countries and people, (especially the poor) loved him, for he made them feel important.
evp	poorly	adverb	1	C1	badly	poorly educated	On the contrary, to my mind both issues were handled rather poorly.
evp	pop	noun	1	A2	modern music with a strong beat that is popular with the general public, especially with young people	pop music	I like pop music.
evp	pop	verb	1	C2	to make a short sound like a small explosion, or to make something do this by breaking it	The music played and champagne corks popped.	Never had she experienced anything like it before, and all her intensity came back in one big bang, just as if she had been a bottle of champagne that someone had been shaking all these years, and now it had finally popped and the joy of living was pouring out of it.
evp	popcorn	noun	1	B1	seeds of corn that have been heated to break open into soft, light balls and are eaten as a snack, often with salt and butter	Which would you like, popcorn or potato chips?	So we have time to buy popcorn & soda until the film starts at 8:00.
evp	popular	adjective	1	A2	liked by many people	She's the most popular teacher in the school.	The video is very popular.
evp	popular	adjective	2	B2	for or involving ordinary people rather than specialists or very educated people	popular entertainment/culture	Due to his studies in Persian folklore and popular culture, he is the progenitor of anthropology in Iran.
evp	popular	adjective	3	C2	A popular belief, opinion, etc. is one that many people have.	The allegations are false, contrary to popular belief.	Contrary to popular belief, Italian cuisine is not restricted to spaghetti and pizza.
evp	popularity	noun	1	B2	the quality of being liked by many people	the increasing popularity of organic food	We agreed that something had to be done to promote the popularity of local films.
evp	population	noun	1	B1	the number of people living in a particular area	a growing/shrinking population	With a population of about 800 people, that town really surprised me!
evp	population	noun	2	B2	all the people living in a particular area, or all the people or animals of a particular type	a 9% rise in the prison population	Their yellow and black stripe has a mysterious beauty (which is the main reason for the huge decrease in the tiger population).
evp	pork	noun	1	B1	meat from a pig	a pork chop	We ordered pork chops, boiled potatoes, and greens.
evp	port	noun	1	B1	a town by the sea or by a river that has a harbor, or the harbor itself	a fishing/container port	The name is very interesting because the hotel is near the port.
evp	portable	adjective	1	C1	able to be carried	a portable computer	Laptops are indeed a portable office.
evp	portion	noun	1	B2	the amount of food served to one person, especially in a restaurant	The portions are very generous in this restaurant.	I think you should take a packed lunch with you, because the restaurant is far too expensive and the portions are too small.
evp	portion	noun	2	C1	a part or share of something larger	A large/major portion of the company's profit goes straight back into new projects.	Such an event will probably attract publicity (TV, radio, newspapers) and since we are a new company, we will have the opportunity to become known to a large portion of the population in a short amount of time.
evp	portrait	noun	1	B2	a painting, drawing, or photograph of someone	a portrait painter	Downstairs we can find pictures by old masters and a great portrait of the Spanish King Charles the Third.
evp	portray	verb	1	C2	If a book or movie portrays someone or something, it describes or shows them.	Both novels portray the lives of professional athletes.	As soon as Piggy appears in the novel he is portrayed as an outsider.
evp	portrayal	noun	1	C2	the way that someone or something is portrayed	He won several awards for his portrayal of the great artist.	While this film may be criticised on grounds that it is a Swiss director looking at his own country, Minger's view proves to give an overly critical portrayal of Switzerland, showing that hindsight is indeed possible, even in such a small country.
evp	position	noun	1	B1	the situation that someone is in	When two of your best friends argue it puts you in a bad position.	She knows the person that owns the club, who decided to organize a private party for her 18th birthday. I wish [I was in her position.
evp	position	noun	2	B1	the place where something or someone is, often in relation to other things	I found our position on the map.	I like this restaurant because of its position, the old town, and most of all because the owner is a friend of mine so that the bill is not too expensive for me!
evp	position	noun	3	B1	the way someone is sitting, standing, or lying, or if something is pointing up or down, etc.	a kneeling position	Four hundred kms in that un]comfortabl position was terrible for us.
evp	position	noun	4	B1	the part that someone plays in a game such as football	I didn't know you played hockey - what position do you play?	It's a basketball club and all those guys in the club are much bigger than me. At first we talked to each other about which position we had to play.
evp	position	noun	5	B2	your level of importance in a company or society	the position of women in society	Perhaps the style of their dress will indicate their position in society too.
evp	position	noun	6	B2	a job in a company, school, or other organization	He held the position for six years.	Dear Mr. Greenfield I am writing in response to the advertisement which I saw published in my local newspaper, as I would like to apply for the position you offer.
evp	position	noun	7	C1	to be able to do something because of your situation	I'm not in a position to talk about this at the moment.	But no one is in a position to know about it yet, since now it is just an option.
evp	position	noun	8	C1	If someone or something is in position, they are in the place that they should be in.	The police were all in position.	Remember to stay calm when you are in the car with the instructor, wear your seatbelt and check that all your mirrors are in position.
evp	position	noun	9	C1	to cause someone to be in a difficult situation	When two of your best friends argue it puts you in a very difficult position.	I know that I will put you in a difficult position with my absence but I must leave.
evp	positive	adjective	1	B1	feeling enthusiastic and happy about your life and your future	a positive attitude	She is lovely and she is always positive.
evp	positive	adjective	2	B2	A positive effect is good and makes something better.	The improved diet had a positive effect on his mood.	All the colors and the smell of fresh and dried flowers has such a positive effect on me that life feels great.
evp	positive	adjective	3	B2	expressing the answer yes	We received a positive answer/reply to our request for a meeting.	I am looking forward to your positive response. .
evp	positive	adjective	4	B2	certain that something is true	"Are you sure you saw him?" "Absolutely positive."	I'm positive that my experience will be useful in another shop like yours.
evp	positive	adjective	5	C2	If a medical test is positive, it shows that the person being tested has a disease or condition.	She did a pregnancy test and it was positive.	After some medical tests proved positive, she agreed with me.
evp	positively	adverb	1	B2	in a good or hopeful way	I don't respond very positively to being bossed around - it just makes me angry.	Modern technology also affects my life positively in the lab I work for.
evp	possess	verb	1	C1	to have or own something	He was found guilty of possessing an illegal weapon.	She was lucky to possess a single nice-looking long dress for special occasions, so there was no point in wasting time choosing the appropriate dress.
evp	possession	noun	1	B2	something that you own or that you are carrying with you at any time	Please remember to take all your personal possessions with you when you leave the aircraft.	Talking about using your possessions, can I use your electronic appliances such as computers and CD players while you are away?
evp	possession	noun	2	C2	when you have or own something	I have in my possession a photograph which may be of interest to you.	After many hours of deliberation, the decision was taken to search every hut and if anyone was found in possession of the diary then they would be killed for having commited an act of theft.
evp	possessive	adjective	1	B1	in grammar, a possessive word or form of a word shows who or what something belongs to	"Mine" and "yours" are possessive pronouns.	
evp	possessive	adjective	2	C2	wanting someone to love and spend time with you and no one else	She stopped seeing him because he was becoming too possessive.	It had never crossed her mind that Matt could ever be possessive, but after long discussions trying to persuade Matt, Alice won.
evp	possibility	noun	1	B1	a chance that something may happen or be true	The forecast said that there's a possibility of snow tonight.	Then I remembered I had tried on some rings one hour before in a shop in the center of the city. Maybe I had taken it off while I was trying them. It was a possibility!
evp	possibility	noun	2	B2	something that you can choose to do from a number of options	We could hire extra help - that's one possibility.	Another possibility is to go to the London Transport Museum, which is very close and free for students.
evp	possible	adjective	1	A1	If something is possible, it can happen or be done.	Is it possible to speak to the manager please?	If possible, I would like to eat lasagne, because I love Italian food.
evp	possible	adjective	2	A2	as much/quickly/soon, etc. as something can happen or be done	Please sit down as quickly as possible.	I need it as soon as possible.
evp	possible	adjective	3	B1	If something is possible, it might or might not exist or be true.	It's possible (that) Mira might turn up tonight.	I investigate the most urgent environmental problems in our world, and then I suggest possible solutions to them.
evp	possible	adjective	4	B2	every time it is possible	I try to use olive oil whenever possible.	My friends have always regarded me as a cheerful, active girl, who is glad to help out whenever possible.
evp	possible	adjective	5	B2	every time it is possible	Wherever possible I use honey instead of sugar.	They have to implement more economical and eco-friendly means of transport like electric trains instead of diesel ones and trying to operate alternatives like trams instead of buses wherever possible and more eco-friendly buses where not.
evp	possible	adjective	6	C1	the best/cheapest/worst, etc. that can happen or exist	We need to complete the work in the shortest possible time.	But I strongly believe that with good will and enough effort from both sides - our club members and you - we will work everything out in the best possible way!
evp	possibly	adverb	1	A2	used when something is not certain	Someone, possibly Tom, left the window open.	We can meet, possibly in Bath - we'll hav] a nice day together!
evp	possibly	adverb	2	B1	used in polite questions	Could I possibly borrow your computer?	Could you possibly lend me your bike for one day?
evp	possibly	adverb	3	B2	used with "can" or "could" for emphasis	We'll do everything we possibly can to help.	My opinion is that everyone who possibly can go by bicycle should do that.
evp	post	verb	1	B1	to leave a message on a Web site	I posted a query about a Chilean novelist.	
evp	post	verb	2	C1	to make certain that someone always knows what is happening	Keep me posted on anything that happens while I'm away.	We will keep our members posted on the best eating places in town.
evp	post	verb	3	C2	to be sent to France/London/Singapore, etc. to work, usually for the government or the military	He was posted to Germany for two years.	At the age of eleven, my father was posted to Montreal and, naturally, I had to go along.
evp	postal	adjective	1	C1	relating to the system of sending letters and packages	the postal service/system	It's just another strike that has affected our everyday life, and Polish postal services in particular.
evp	postcard	noun	1	A2	a card, often with a photograph or picture on one side, that can be sent in the mail without an envelope	Ella sent me a postcard from Japan.	Thanks for your postcard.
evp	poster	noun	1	A2	a large, printed picture or notice that you put on a wall, in order to decorate a place or to advertise something	The children put up posters on the classroom walls.	I can give you some posters for the concert.
evp	post office	noun	1	A2	a place where stamps are sold and from which letters and packages are sent	Where's the nearest post office?	The house is behind the post office.
evp	postpone	verb	1	B1	to arrange for something to happen at a later time	They decided to postpone their trip to Mexico until next year.	I'm doing an experiment tomorrow which I can't postpone.
evp	posture	noun	1	C1	the position of your back, shoulders, etc. when you are standing or sitting	She has very good/bad/poor posture.	As for the furniture, replacing old rickety chairs would result in better working conditions and prevent fatigue, stress, incapacity for work due to bad posture, therefore speeding up productivity and doing away with complaints about pain and poor health.
evp	pot	noun	1	B1	a round container, usually used for storing things or for cooking	a flower pot	By the right window there is a green plant in a pot.
evp	potato	noun	1	A1	a round vegetable with a brown, yellow, or red skin that grows in the ground	boiled/baked/roasted potatoes	I like to eat mashed potatoes with chicken and salad.
evp	potato chip	noun	1	A2	a very thin slice of potato that has been cooked in oil and is eaten cold	a bag of potato chips	After the film we can go to my house and have potato chips which you like the most.
evp	potential	adjective	1	B2	possible when the necessary conditions exist	A number of potential buyers have expressed interest in the company.	As a potential customer, I need some further information.
evp	potential	noun	1	B2	someone's or something's ability to develop, achieve or succeed	The region has enormous potential for economic development.	The sheer potential for communication it offers is overwhelming.
evp	potentially	adverb	1	B2	possibly	Hepatitis is a potentially fatal disease.	Scientific experiments tend to show that microwaves produced by phones may cause cancers and tumors.
evp	pottery	noun	1	B2	plates, bowls, etc. that are made from clay	They sell pottery and other handmade goods.	You can see very precious pottery and take pictures of old goods in antique shops.
evp	pottery	noun	2	B2	the activity or skill of making plates, bowls, etc. from clay	I am taking a pottery class on Thursday evenings.	So I suggest we should print new ones with the latest information, for example about our new pottery courses.
evp	pound	noun	1	B2	a unit for measuring weight	One pound is approximately equal to 454 grams.	
evp	pound	verb	1	B2	to hit or beat repeatedly with a lot of force, or to crush something by hitting it repeatedly	I could feel my heart pounding as I went on stage to receive the prize.	Tina's heart began to pound when suddenly, she heard her name being called out loud!
evp	pour	verb	1	B1	to make a liquid flow from or into a container	I poured the milk into the glasses.	The look on his face stopped me cold, as if someone had just poured a freezing bucket of water down my back.
evp	pour	verb	2	B1	to rain a lot	We can't go out in this weather - it's pouring!	I really enjoy shopping, specially in winter time when the rain is pouring down.
evp	pour	verb	3	B2	to flow quickly and in large amounts	Blood was pouring from my leg.	He woke up and cleaned off the blood that poured from his injured eyebrow.
evp	pour	verb	4	C2	to enter or leave a place in large numbers	The crowd poured out into the street.	Those are the tourists, who pour out of the jumbo jet, who get gathered by a charming guide and who are driven to the next airconditioned luxury hotel.
evp	poverty	noun	1	B2	the condition of being extremely poor	Two million people in the city live in poverty.	First of all, I think that our grandparents lived in poverty without amenities.
evp	powder	noun	1	B1	a dry substance made of many small, loose grains	curry/chilli powder	Have you ever been in a place where the blue sky meets clear waters and it has a very fine sand that feels like powder?
evp	power	noun	1	B1	energy, usually electricity, that is used to provide light, heat, etc.	power lines	From my parents, I found out that there was a power failure.
evp	power	noun	2	B2	control or influence over people and events	I don't have any power over him - he does what he wants to.	People can't be trusted with power. [T]hey will always reach for more.
evp	power	noun	3	C1	political control in a country	They have been in power too long.	It happened in the November of 1973 and it is the University students' rebellion against the outlaw military goverment which had come to power in 1967 after a violent coup.
evp	power	noun	4	C1	to do everything that you are able and allowed to do	I've done everything in my power to help him.	I think of myself as an open-minded and cheerful person and if I get the job I will do everything in my power to make sure your visitors will have a great time at the theme park.
evp	power	noun	5	C1	a country that has a lot of influence over others	a major world power	Unfortunately this trend continues into adulthood and has become so bad that in a world power like the United States, one in every three people are considered clinically obese.
evp	power	noun	6	C1	strength or force	economic/military power	We have enough population and economic power to set up a complete city.
evp	powerful	adjective	1	B1	A powerful person is able to control and influence people and events.	a powerful man/woman	The man worked for a really powerful man, doing the 'dirty work', but, deep inside he was a really good person with a sad childhood.
evp	powerful	adjective	2	B1	having a lot of strength or force	a powerful computer/engine/weapon	The activity that I like best is surfing the Web with a powerful personal computer.
evp	powerful	adjective	3	B2	having a strong effect on people	a powerful effect/influence	The importance of this invention is that the information transmitted on it reaches a lot of people at the same time, so it's a very powerful method of communication in our society.
evp	powerfully	adverb	1	B2	in a powerful way	She kicked the ball so powerfully that it flew over the fence.	Mary moved to her aunt's house, an inn, but she had got married to a strange, powerfully-built man.
evp	practical	adjective	1	B2	relating to experience, real situations or actions rather than ideas or imagination	Education is important but practical experience is always an advantage.	Before making up my mind, I would like to gain some experience through practical activities.
evp	practical	adjective	2	C1	able to be done successfully	a practical solution	This is not a very practical solution for the employees.
evp	practical	adjective	3	C1	suitable or useful for a situation which may involve some difficulty	practical clothes/shoes	Instead of being practical, our clothes need to be extravagant.
evp	practical	adjective	4	C2	Someone who is practical is good at planning things, making sensible decisions, and dealing with problems.	She has a lot of interesting ideas but she's not very practical.	But Macon is a practical man, so he tries to find the advantages of living on his own.
evp	practically	adverb	1	B2	almost or very nearly	She blamed me for practically every mistake in the report.	Today it is used in practically all spheres and its influence on people is not unnoticeable.
evp	practice	noun	1	A2	when you repeat an activity to improve your ability	We need more practice before the concert.	The new class art is on Thursday evening, after basketball practice.
evp	practice	noun	2	B2	to not do something well because you have not done it recently	I didn't play well today - I'm out of practice.	I think playing in the club will be a great opportunity for me so as not to be out of practice.
evp	practice	noun	3	B2	in a real situation	In practice, the new regulations had little effect.	When you leave school, you have knowledge but you do not know how to use it in practice.
evp	practice	noun	4	C1	to do something in reality that has been planned or talked about	Next month we will have a chance to put these ideas into practice.	The doctors cannot really put all their skills into practice.
evp	practice	noun	5	C2	what people do or how they do it	the illegal practice of copying CDs	Chancellors as well as men in the king's court were known to be corrupt and dishonest, who made bribery a common practice.
evp	practice	verb	1	A1	to do or play something regularly or repeatedly in order to become skilled at it	She practices the violin every day.	I like to practice my lessons.
evp	practitioner	noun	1	C2	someone who works in a profession such as medicine or law	a medical practitioner	Another measure is to encourage people to do some forms of exercise and this is where health care practitioners come in.
evp	pragmatic	adjective	1	C2	doing things in a practical and realistic way and not using only ideas	a pragmatic approach to a problem	Anal[yz]ing such opinions, it is not hard to conclude that the younger generation, which is traditionally regarded as romantic and idealistic, has become rather pragmatic and down-to-earth and gotten used to associating success in life with affluence.
evp	praise	verb	1	B2	to express admiration or approval about the achievements or characteristics of a person or thing	He should be praised for his honesty.	In fact, my grade was the best in the class and my Math teacher praised me for being so careful and correct.
evp	praise	noun	1	C1	words you say to show that you admire someone or something	They deserve praise for their achievements.	This may sound like glowing praise, but Michael really deserves it.
evp	pray	verb	1	A2	to speak to a god in order to show your feelings or to ask for something	She knelt and prayed silently.	It always reminds me when to study, to pray, etc.
evp	pray	verb	2	B2	to hope for something very much	We're praying for good weather for the parade tomorrow.	I am very disappointed with this event and praying that it will happen again next year.
evp	prayer	noun	1	B1	the words you say to a god	a prayer of thanks	I am stopping this letter with lots of love and prayers.
evp	precaution	noun	1	C1	something that you do to prevent bad things happening in the future	Driving alone at night can be dangerous, so always take precautions.	The dancing and the horse shows were indeed cancelled, as a precaution out of fear of the weather becoming even worse.
evp	precede	verb	1	C2	to happen or exist before something else	The formal ceremony was preceded by a parade.	Second, guest appearances should be preceded by the reading and discussion of those writers' works, otherwise students may profit and benefit little from meeting and talking to them at such events.
evp	precedent	noun	1	C2	an action or decision that is used as an example when someone wants to do a similar thing in the future	This decision has set an important legal precedent for other countries.	Although it definitely sounds rather optimistic, this precedent might be used to improve one aspect of life in the future: safety and peace.
evp	precious	adjective	1	B2	rare and very valuable	a precious vase	I am so sorry because I broke a precious vase you had in your bedroom.
evp	precious	adjective	2	B2	very important to you	a precious moment/memory	Love is something precious which we all want to have.
evp	precise	adjective	1	B2	exact and accurate	The precise location of the house is a secret.	I would appreciate it if you were more precise next time with your report.
evp	precise	adjective	2	B2	used to give exact details about something	We met in 1994 - on October 1st to be precise.	It's in Central London, to be precise.
evp	precisely	adverb	1	B2	exactly	The fireworks begin precisely at eight.	He was born in the countryside, more precisely in Bourgogne, and he had always lived there.
evp	precisely	adverb	2	B2	used to emphasize what you are saying	"You look tired - you should go home and rest."  "I'm going to do precisely that."	Books may not be interactive, but that's precisely where their advantage is.
evp	precisely	adverb	3	C1	used to agree with what someone else says	"It's not the shape I dislike, it's the color." - "Precisely!"	
evp	predator	noun	1	C1	an animal that kills and eats other animals	These animals have remarkably few predators.	Ferocious animals, such as tigers, lions and snakes (anacondas) can be seen in these areas, but for those who are not used to forests, these predators may only become visible once they are attacked.
evp	predecessor	noun	1	C2	the person who was in a job or position before	He seems a lot better than his predecessor.	In the light of the above-mentioned arguments it remains all the more odd why my predecessor has chosen decisions concerning friendship and leisure activities as examples of his thesis.
evp	predict	verb	1	B1	to say that an event or action will happen in the future, especially as a result of knowledge or experience	It's still not possible to accurately predict when an earthquake will occur.	Now, fully equipped and powerful computers can be so small and mobile that some specialists predict that new devices will replace books.
evp	predictable	adjective	1	B2	happening or behaving in a way you expect and not unusual or interesting	Comets appear at predictable times.	When I was younger I read many books. I preferred mystery stories, but now they are very predictable for me.
evp	prediction	noun	1	B2	when you say what will happen in the future	Please don't ask me to make any predictions about tomorrow's meeting.	But in case my predictions are right, maybe you should buy a new pair of shorts?
evp	predominant	adjective	1	C2	more important or noticeable than others	He has played a predominant role in these talks.	As far as I know, the predominant wish of students leaving school is to enjoy life.
evp	predominantly	adverb	1	C2	mostly or mainly	a predominantly Asian community	Nevertheless the Japanese scientist refutes the latter argument on basis of his famous theory, according to which the predominantly masculine pleasure of driving is caused by a "hidden dictator's syndrome."
evp	prefer	verb	1	A2	to like someone or something more than another person or thing	Do you prefer hot or cold weather?	Pop music is good but we prefer hip-hop.
evp	prefer	verb	2	A2	used to say what you want, or to ask someone what they want	I prefer not to discuss this issue.	I would prefer to wear old jeans and a top.
evp	preferable	adjective	1	B2	better or more suitable	Staying at home is preferable to going out with someone you don't like.	I think it would be preferable to do it i] July.
evp	preferably	adverb	1	B2	if possible	Water the plants twice a week, preferably in the morning.	I think you should spend more time with your friends, preferably in the fresh country air.
evp	preference	noun	1	B2	when you like something or someone more than another person or thing	We have white and whole wheat bread. Do you have a preference?	Please, let us know about his musical preferences, as well as the books that he is interested in.
evp	prefix	noun	1	B2	a letter or group of letters added to the beginning of a word to make a new word	In the word "unimportant," "un-" is a prefix.	
evp	pregnancy	noun	1	C1	when a woman is pregnant	Her symptoms were caused by her pregnancy.	The reduced risk of further pregnancies in conjunction with less remuneration for their work makes these women seem more attractive to employers.
evp	pregnant	adjective	1	B1	A pregnant woman has a baby developing inside her uterus.	She's five and a half months pregnant.	She wrote me the really nice news that she is pregnant.
evp	prejudice	noun	1	B2	an unfair and unreasonable opinion or feeling, especially when formed without enough thought or knowledge	Laws against racial prejudice must be strictly enforced.	What is really amazing is that Biko, who is banned but "free" of any prejudice, who doesn't discriminate against anybody, "frees" Mr Woods (who is not banned) from his narrow-minded and intolerant views and gives another aim to Woods' life.
evp	prejudiced	adjective	1	C1	feeling dislike for a group of people or treating them unfairly because they are a different race, sex, religion, etc.	Are the police prejudiced against black people?	Men have been very prejudiced against women in this sector, so it has been hard to prove the opposite.
evp	preliminary	adjective	1	C1	done or happening in order to prepare for the main event or activity	a preliminary discussion/meeting	Picasso would start with a lot of preliminary sketches and then go on to paint his final picture, where the main figures - a woman and a horse - are screaming in despair.
evp	premises	noun	1	C1	the land and buildings owned by someone, especially by a company or organization	The company is moving to new premises.	The staff will have more space to work in as our local branch is moving to larger premises, and better work conditions will be provided to them.
evp	preparation	noun	1	B1	the things that you do or the time that you spend preparing for something	The teacher was arranging the classroom in preparation for the new students.	I felt that I improved a lot just in this class, so I think that my preparation for the exam will be really good.
evp	preparation	noun	2	B2	plans or arrangements that you make to prepare for something	wedding preparations	I would really like to help you with the preparations the day before, but it's impossible for me to come.
evp	prepare	verb	1	A2	to make or get something or someone ready for something that will happen in the future	Do you feel prepared for your interview?	For example, I can prepare the materials we will need for decorating.
evp	prepare	verb	2	A2	to make food ready to be eaten	Marco prepared lunch.	I can help you to decorate the stage, and prepare some snacks.
evp	prepared	adjective	1	B1	ready to deal with a situation	When she called on me, I wasn't prepared.	I want to be well prepared for my first trip to England.
evp	prepared	adjective	2	B2	to be willing, or happy to agree to do something	If you need help, I'm prepared to fill out some of the paperwork.	I'm prepared to offer quite a lot in order to give the animals a better life.
evp	prepared	adjective	3	B2	done or made earlier	The spokesperson read a prepared statement.	More fast-food and prepared meals are available than a few years ago.
evp	preposition	noun	1	B1	in grammar, a word which is used before a noun, a noun phrase or a pronoun, connecting it to another word	In the sentences "We jumped in the lake," and "She drove slowly down the driveway," "in" and "down" are prepositions.	In my 1st lesson I learned about prepositions, and I think I'm going to continue the class next week.
evp	prescribe	verb	1	C2	to say what medical treatment someone needs	Painkillers are the most common drugs prescribed by doctors.	I visited my doctor a few weeks ago in order to ask him if I could get tranquilizers as a remedy, but he refused to prescribe them as they wouldn't fight the real reason for my problems.
evp	prescription	noun	1	B1	a piece of paper on which a doctor writes the details of the medicine or drugs that someone needs	a doctor's prescription	You should also go to see a doctor and ask him to give a prescription for some sleeping pills.
evp	presence	noun	1	B2	when someone or something is in a place	She was anxious about the presence of so many people.	Your presence here at the club would be really beneficial for the students.
evp	presence	noun	2	C2	a quality that makes people notice and admire you	She's only small, but she has real presence.	He derived great benefit from her soothing presence, but otherwise was too duty-bound to notice their relationship went haywire.
evp	presence	noun	3	C2	to have a strong effect on other people	The new police chief has really made his presence felt.	Before long a local bicycle gang was formed which would ride all over the village, through fields and gardens, making our presence felt.
evp	presence	noun	4	C2	a group of police or soldiers who are watching or controlling a situation	a strong police
presence	People residing in the countryside find themselves living in fear, claiming that the lack of police presence and protection has resulted in great insecurity.
evp	presence	noun	5	C2	a feeling that someone is still in a place although they are not there or are dead	His daughter's presence seemed to fill the empty bedroom.	There was something there that disturbed him, he felt a strange presence but couldn't describe what it was.
evp	presence	noun	6	C2	the ability to deal with a difficult situation quickly and effectively	She had the presence of mind to press the alarm.	Frank tried to hide a bag behind his back with great presence of mind.
evp	presentation	noun	1	B1	a talk giving information about something	The speaker gave an interesting presentation on urban transportation.	I'm going to prepare a presentation about London.
evp	presentation	noun	2	B2	an occasion when prizes, certificates, diplomas, etc. are formally given to those who have won or achieved them	The presentation of prizes and certificates will take place in the auditorium.	
evp	presentation	noun	3	C2	the way something is arranged or shown to people	Presentation is important if you want people to buy your products.	While the surroundings are very elegant, this is one restaurant where the food and its presentation is of paramount importance.
evp	presently	adverb	1	C1	now	He's presently living with his parents.	I am presently working as a sales assistant in "La Suze," a lingerie shop in the city.
evp	preservation	noun	1	C1	when you keep something the same or prevent it from being damaged or destroyed	the preservation of peace	I was asked to investigate the current situation in my area, concerning the efforts to cut down on the use of energy and natural resources, in order to contribute to the preservation of the environment.
evp	preserve	verb	1	B2	to keep something the same or prevent it from being damaged or destroyed	to preserve the environment	It is a fundamental necessity for everybody to try to do something in order to preserve the health of our planet.
evp	presidency	noun	1	B2	the job of being president, or the period when someone is a president	He has announced that he is running for the presidency.	His presidency finished in 1384 (2005), but Iranians will never forget him.
evp	president	noun	1	A2	the highest political position in some countries, usually the leader of the government	President Obama	[An]other attraction is our museum that is very famous because many paintings have been bought by important people like the President of the United States.
evp	presidential	adjective	1	B2	relating to the president of a country	a presidential candidate	Anyway, now Laura was counting to 10 as her brother was putting a bomb in the presidential car.
evp	press	verb	1	B1	to push something firmly, often without causing it to move permanently further away from you	Press the button to start the machine.	When you press it, it will say: "Congratulations" to you.
evp	press	verb	2	C2	to try hard to persuade someone to do something	The committee pressed him to reveal more information.	A year later, the press, publishers and film-makers and directors pressed me to make a film on Stella.
evp	press	verb	3	C2	to complain officially about someone in a court of law	The family decided not to press charges against him.	He decided on the spot that if Paul was to return all the money he wouldn't press charges so he called his parents and asked them to find out where he was.
evp	press	noun	1	B2	newspapers, magazines, and television, radio, or Internet news organizations, or the people who report the news for them	The director hasn't talked to the press yet.	I helped them with most of the practical arrangements, such as meetings with the press, dinners and so on.
evp	press	noun	2	C1	praise or criticism from newspapers, magazines, television, etc.	She's had a lot of bad press recently.	I also insist that you write a note of apology to the organizers, for bad press won't help either the charity or the hospital.
evp	pressure	noun	1	B2	when someone tries to make someone else do something by arguing, persuading, etc.	political/peer pressure	I understand that you must work a lot because of the pressure from your boss, but I will in spite of that warn you and ask you to think over the situation.
evp	pressure	noun	2	B2	to try to force someone to do something	They're putting pressure on me to make a decision.	She puts a lot of pressure on me and believes that I can do it in the same way as she did.
evp	pressure	noun	3	B2	a difficult situation that makes you feel worried or unhappy	They've been putting a lot of pressure on her at work lately.	I have two younger sisters so I think I can cope with the pressure of helping out in the summer camps.
evp	pressure	noun	4	C1	the force that a liquid or gas produces when it presses against an area	water/air
pressure	The process of hydro-electric power generation is using the water pressure from the reservoir to generate the power, which is then transported to a transformer station through high voltage cables.
evp	pressure	noun	5	C2	the force you produce when you press something	He put too much pressure on the door handle and it snapped.	
evp	prestige	noun	1	C1	when people feel respect and admiration for you, often because you are successful	His company has gained international prestige.	Many companies nowadays are organizing some cultural or sports events in order to strengthen the company's prestige.
evp	prestigious	adjective	1	C1	respected and admired, usually because of being important	a prestigious award	The jobs that were prestigious in the past seem to be the opposite now.
evp	presumably	adverb	1	B2	used to say what you think is the likely situation	They would presumably be able to afford a larger apartment.	First of all, I would recommend departing at 8 o'clock because it will presumably be less crowded than at 10 o'clock.
evp	presume	verb	1	C1	to believe something to be true because it is very likely, although you are not certain	I presume they're not coming, since they haven't replied to the invitation.	Naturally eating habits have changed here - I presume as everywhere else in the western world - but the Austrians still love their "Wiener Schnitzel" and their "Tafelspitz," which are considered typical traditional Austrian food.
evp	presumption	noun	1	C2	when you believe that something is true without any proof	I object to the presumption that young people are only interested in pop music.	All positive effects of the higher average age of people have the presumption that their health allows them to live like younger ones.
evp	pretend	verb	1	B2	to behave as if something is true when it is not	She's not really hurt - she's only pretending.	Be calm or at least pretend you are.
evp	pretty	adjective	1	A2	If a woman or girl is pretty, she is attractive.	She's got such a pretty daughter.	I met a pretty girl and she's called Mary.
evp	pretty	adjective	2	B1	If a place or an object is pretty, it is pleasant to look at.	That's a pretty hat you're wearing.	Rabat is the capital of Morocco. There are a lot of attractions, like ancient historic sites, sandy beaches, and a pretty Moroccan market.
evp	pretty	adverb	1	B1	quite, but not extremely or not completely	The house has four bedrooms, so it's pretty big.	The best thing about our club is the table tennis, which I'm getting pretty good at.
evp	pretty	adverb	2	B2	almost	I've pretty much finished here.	You can pretty much tell your mother any problem you have and she'll try her best to help you out.
evp	prevail	verb	1	C2	to get control or influence	We can only hope that common sense will prevail.	This saying reflects an attitude that prevailed in the European countries of the 19th century when the people were no longer confined to only a basic education and the authority of the church.
evp	prevent	verb	1	B1	to stop something from happening or someone from doing something	to prevent accidents/crime	As I told you once, I'd like to buy a bookshelf where I can organize my books and prevent them from getting damaged.
evp	prevention	noun	1	B2	when you stop something from happening or stop someone from doing something	crime prevention	I think prevention is the best medicine.
evp	preventive	adjective	1	C2	Preventive action is intended to stop something before it happens.	preventive measures	There are many causes to these problems and certain preventive measures should be enforced to solve them.
evp	previous	adjective	1	B1	existing or happening before something or someone else	the previous day/week/month/year	I felt my previous class was not suitable for me any longer, so I decided to ask the administrator to help me to change to a higher class.
evp	previously	adverb	1	B1	before the present time or the time referred to	She was previously employed as a tour guide.	Well, first of all I must tell you that I didn't know it previously.
evp	prey	noun	1	C2	an animal that is hunted and killed by another animal	The camera follows the owl swooping down on its prey.	Like a tiger who looks at the prey he has just hunted, Martha looked at the dead body of the boy.
evp	prey	noun	2	C2	to be hurt or deceived by something or someone bad	He fell prey to a gang of criminals pretending to be city officials.	As young people do not have experience in living independently in society and are not fully aware of social problems such as drugs and violence, they may easily fall prey to adults who would like to exploit them.
evp	price	noun	1	A2	the amount of money that you pay to buy something	high/low prices	Please send me some information about the course, with timetables, prices...
evp	price	noun	2	C1	the unpleasant results that you must accept or experience for getting or doing something	Suspension from the club was a high/small
price to pay for his mistake.	What really characterizes Michael is his love for life, his continuous joy, which sometimes can become rather annoying, but this is just a small price to pay for all his success.
evp	price	noun	3	C2	If you want something at any price, you will do anything to get it.	She wanted the job at any price.	They wanted to be parents at any price.
evp	price	noun	4	C2	to accept the unpleasant results of what you have done	If you abuse your body now, you'll pay the price when you're older.	When all is said and done, do contemporary sports events pose an advantage to athletes pursuing their physical excellence? I would dare to say no, unless he, or increasingly she, is prepared to pay the price in becoming a ready-made product for public consumption.
evp	price	verb	1	C2	to say what the price of something is	The car is priced at $28,000.	Both games are priced at approximately £30.
evp	priceless	adjective	1	B2	very valuable	a priceless antique/painting	She had five unique paintings by Van Gogh which were priceless.
evp	priceless	adjective	2	C1	very important or useful	A trip around the world is a priceless opportunity.	It would be sad if not unfair for my friend to miss this unique and priceless opportunity.
evp	pride	noun	1	B2	a feeling of satisfaction with your achievements or the achievements of your family or friends	She felt a great sense of pride as she watched him accept the award.	I take pride in you and your patience.
evp	pride	noun	2	B2	the respect that you feel for yourself	She has too much pride to accept any help.	Her wounded pride misleads her into a strong prejudice.
evp	pride	noun	3	C2	to decide to do something although it will shame or embarrass you	He swallowed his pride and asked if he could have his old job back.	She has had to put up with all the psychological harm that her husband has put her through and at the same time, she has had to keep on struggling for her children, never giving in; holding back her tears, swallowing her pride just for the benefit of her daughters.
evp	priest	noun	1	B1	someone who performs religious duties and ceremonies	a Roman Catholic priest	I started to read one of the e-mails and I couldn't believe what I was reading. One of my best friends had become a priest!
evp	primarily	adverb	1	B2	mainly	She's known primarily as a novelist but she also writes poetry.	"The Vagabond Dog" - one of his best short stories - is primarily naturalistic.
evp	primary	adjective	1	B2	most important	Her primary responsibility is to train new employees.	You can listen to music and generally use it for fun but the primary reason that computers were invented was for communication.
evp	prime	adjective	1	C2	main or most important	the prime suspect in a murder investigation	It is of prime importance to find out about culture and history.
evp	prime	adjective	2	C2	a very good example of something	This is a prime example of what happens when communication is poor.	In this context in the analyses of Piggy's character, it strikes me as a first spontaneous impression that he personifies the typical proper schoolboy who will later on undoubtedly grow up to be the prime example of a good and responsible citizen.
evp	prime minister	noun	1	B2	the leader of the government in some countries		Yesterday I heard that animal rights activists have met the prime minister: maybe the situation will change.
evp	primitive	adjective	1	C1	relating to human society at a very early stage of development, with people living in a simple way without machines or a writing system	primitive man	Young people nowadays are more exposed to the world news, whereas primitive societies were rather isolated and had nothing to do with the outside world.
evp	primitive	adjective	2	C1	very basic or old-fashioned	The conditions at the campsite were quite primitive.	Students will not appreciate their primitive meals at any cost, even a low one.
evp	prince	noun	1	B1	the son of a king or queen, or one of their close male relatives	Prince Edward	At last, the beast really changed back into a prince.
evp	princess	noun	1	B1	the daughter of a king or queen, or one of their close female relatives, or the wife of a prince	He was married to a Spanish princess.	My teacher told me that I have to wear a dress like a princess.
evp	principal	adjective	1	B1	main, or most important	That was my principal reason for moving.	This is its principal advantage.
evp	principal	noun	1	A2	the person in charge of a school	She is the principal of Northside Elementary School.	He said that my school principal would like to see me that day and it was urgent.
evp	print	noun	1	C1	a copy of a picture made using photography or by pressing paper onto a design covered in ink	a print of Van Gogh's 'Sunflowers'	MI5 operates two computers, one for word processing and another for scanning and reproducing prints, drawings and photos.
evp	print	noun	2	C2	words, letters, or numbers that are produced on paper by a machine	The print's so small in this book that I can hardly read it.	
evp	print	noun	3	C2	If a book is in print, it is possible to buy a new copy of it, and if it is out of print, it is not currently possible.	The novel was first published in 1880 and has been in print ever since.	There are books that you would never find again because they are out of print.
evp	print	verb	1	A2	to produce writing or images on paper or other material with a machine	I printed your report and I made some notes on it.	I will help you with printing the tickets.
evp	print	verb	2	B2	to produce books, newspapers, magazines, etc., usually in large quantities, using machines	Fifty thousand booklets have been printed for the exhibition.	We should also have a more efficient tourist service - it is years since we last printed brochures of our town!
evp	print	verb	3	B2	to include a piece of writing in a newspaper or magazine	They printed his letter in Tuesday's paper.	Please take this into consideration and print a corrected version of the article.
evp	printer	noun	1	A2	a machine that is connected to a computer and produces writing or images on paper	a laser printer	I want to sell a computer with a printer.
evp	prior	adjective	1	C1	existing or happening before something else	The course requires no prior knowledge of Spanish.	Referring to our prior correspondence I would like to inform you that I accept your friendly offer for being once again your interpreter on your one-week-tour through our country.
evp	prior	adjective	2	C1	before a particular time or event	the weeks prior to her death	I'd like to tell you about my expectations prior to the conference.
evp	priority	noun	1	B2	something that is very important and must be dealt with before other things	The people did not seem to consider safety a priority.	We need to show films that are enjoyable for all kinds of people, always giving priority to the quality.
evp	prison	noun	1	B1	a building where criminals must live as a punishment	He's spent a lot of time in prison.	About 3 weeks later, I tried to escape from the prison, but they caught me.
evp	prisoner	noun	1	B1	a person who is kept in prison as a punishment	Prisoners climbed onto the prison roof to protest the conditions inside.	This film dealt with two prisoners that escape from their prison and start to take money from banks (of course not legally!)
evp	prisoner	noun	2	C2	to catch someone and guard them so that they cannot escape	He was taken prisoner by a group of armed soldiers.	The ant princess was held prisoner by the evil beetle and the fly prince was on his way to save her.
evp	privacy	noun	1	B2	the right to be alone and do things without other people seeing or hearing you	I hate sharing a bedroom - I never get any privacy.	Well, it seems that a young, modern and successful man can have no privacy at all.
evp	privacy	noun	2	C2	to try to learn things about someone's private life when they do not want you to	They were fed up with journalists invading their privacy.	He would never invade our privacy or force us to talk about our problems.
evp	privacy	noun	3	C2	becoming involved in someone's private life when they do not want you to	These phone calls to my home are an invasion of my privacy.	
evp	private	adjective	1	B1	only for one person or group and not for everyone	She has a small, private office.	I went there to see what's going on, and the band invited us to their private party.
evp	private	adjective	2	B1	describes activities which involve personal matters or relationships and are not connected with your work	Apparently in interviews he refuses to talk about his private life.	We talked about the film and also about our work and our private life.
evp	private	adjective	3	B2	controlled or paid for by a person or company and not by the government	a private school	I have been working as an English teacher for small children at a private school for three years.
evp	private	adjective	4	B2	in a place where nobody else can hear you or see what you are doing	They wanted to talk in private.	I agree that this should be in private.
evp	privately	adverb	1	B2	in secret, or with only one or two other people present	She spoke privately with the manager.	I'll pick you up from the station so we will have the opportunity to chat privately.
evp	privatize	verb	1	C1	If an industry or organization owned by the government is privatized, it is sold to private companies.	The government plans to privatize the railroads.	The companies were privatized or closed down.
evp	privilege	noun	1	C1	an advantage that only one person or group has, usually because of their position or because they are rich	She was born into a life of privilege.	There are only a few things that have been worrying me a bit: firstly I would like to enjoy the privilege of having my own parking place]
evp	privilege	noun	2	C1	an opportunity to do something special or enjoyable	I had the privilege of meeting the Queen.	I have attended several events in benefit of The Foundation but this one was particularly special and memorable as I had the pleasure and the privilege of meeting Elton again - it is really a great privilege to be friendly with someone so special as he is.
evp	privileged	adjective	1	C1	having an advantage that only one person or group has, usually because of their position or because they are rich	a privileged upbringing	Today we are so privileged, life has become so easy in many ways.
evp	privileged	adjective	2	C2	having an opportunity to do something special or enjoyable	I was privileged to see her sing in Milan.	
evp	prize	noun	1	A2	something given to the winner of a competition or to someone who has done good work	to win a prize	We played quite a few games and we had prizes for the winner of each of the games.
evp	probability	noun	1	C1	how likely it is that something will happen	What's the probability of winning?	The statistics say that if one woman gets married to one man, the probability that they will get divorced is 50 percent.
evp	probability	noun	2	C2	used to mean that something is very likely	She will, in all probability, have left before we arrive.	Anybody who can fulfill the above conditions will in all probability be successful.
evp	probable	adjective	1	B2	likely to be true or likely to happen	The probable cause of death was heart failure.	Surely the older you are, the less probable it is that you'll choose a bike.
evp	probably	adverb	1	A2	used to mean that something is very likely	I'll probably be home by midnight.	I'll probably be there by 3.30.
evp	problem	noun	1	A1	a situation that causes difficulties and that needs to be dealt with	I'm having problems with my computer.	English and Polish accents are very different, so this is a big problem for me.
evp	problem	noun	2	A2	something that you say to mean you can or will do what someone has asked you to do	"Can you get me to the airport by 11:30?" "No problem."	Dear Jo, No problem. I can help you.
evp	problem	noun	3	A2	something that you say when someone has thanked you for something	"Thanks for taking me home."  "No problem."	It's ok, no problem.
evp	problematic	adjective	1	C1	full of problems or difficulties	He has a very problematic relationship with his father.	On the other hand, there were some problematic issues.
evp	procedure	noun	1	B2	the official or usual way of doing something	The company has new procedures for dealing with complaints.	In conclusion, I would be very grateful if you could send me additional information on the application procedure.
evp	proceed	verb	1	C1	to continue to happen	His lawyers have decided not to proceed with the case.	I am not sure which is the best way to proceed with this problem.
evp	proceed	verb	2	C2	to do something after you have done something else	She sat down and proceeded to tell me about her skiing trip.	Ku wagged her finger in approval and proceeded to explain her plan.
evp	proceedings	noun	1	C2	legal action against someone	The bank is threatening to start legal proceedings against him.	I happened to know that Diana Robinson, a 13-year-old girl, had started legal proceedings against Mr Thomson and Mr Ketzo, another teacher.
evp	proceedings	noun	2	C2	a written record of what is said or done in a meeting	I read the proceedings of the previous meeting.	Moreover, I would like to do some research on Spain's transition to democracy from dictatorship by accessing primary materials such as parliamentary proceedings, newspapers and other main sources available.
evp	process	noun	1	B2	a series of actions that you take in order to achieve a result	the peace process	But the situation is getting worse because of the decisions of the European Union, which is trying to unify the education of Europe without respecting the wishes of the students who are trying to stop this process.
evp	process	noun	2	B2	a series of changes that happen naturally	the ageing process	Th[ese] events are not only to entertain students, but they are also a part of the learning process, as by communicating with each other students learn the language.
evp	process	noun	3	C2	If something is being done, and something else happens in the process, the second thing happens as a result of doing the first thing.	She stood up to say hello and spilled her drink in the process.	If an attempt is made to move them to another location they will probably die in the process.
evp	process	noun	4	C2	to have started doing something	We're in the process of painting our apartment.	However, I think I am still in the process of learning to learn from the past mistakes since I realize what a great help it might be.
evp	process	verb	1	B2	to deal with documents in an official way	Visa applications take 28 days to process.	
evp	procession	noun	1	C2	a line of people or vehicles that moves forward slowly as part of a ceremony or public event	a funeral procession	As Tom was leading the procession, he saw at once the black, forbidding scene.
evp	produce	verb	1	B1	to make or grow something	The factory produces about 900 cars a year.	In this club we produce and design the school magazine "freestyle".
evp	produce	verb	2	B2	to cause a reaction or result	The medication produced unwanted side-effects.	I was fascinated by the perfection of the classical sculptures: they were perfectly proportioned, every part was functional to the beauty of the whole sculpture. It's really different to looking at them in a book! I suggest everybody should go and look at them: it produces a magic effect!
evp	produce	verb	3	C1	to show or offer something to someone	One of the men suddenly produced a gun from his pocket.	Robert had produced a bottle of champagne, which they had emptied to the last drop.
evp	produce	noun	1	C2	foods such as fruit and vegetables that are grown through farming	local/fresh produce	Rosie, like the Mac Manners at The Green Man, uses local produce and the result is very mouth-watering indeed. I am particularly fond of her soups, the curried parsnip soup being one of my favorites.
evp	producer	noun	1	B2	someone who controls how a film, play, program, or musical recording is made	a movie/TV/film/Hollywood/Broadway producer	I'm sure they are going to be very interested in your first steps as an actor, but also in your later career as a film producer.
evp	producer	noun	2	C2	a company, country, or person that makes goods or grows food	Australia is one of the world's main producers of wool.	For example, in several countries people who live in the countryside actually are the main producers of wheat and also the meat that people need in their daily life.
evp	product	noun	1	B1	something that is made or grown to be sold	They make skin-care products.	You can buy leather products too.
evp	production	noun	1	B2	when you make or grow something	Sand is used in the production of glass.	More people can enjoy music than before, because of the mass production of recorded music.
evp	production	noun	2	B2	the amount of something that is made or grown by a country or a company	We need to increase production by 20%.	He became famous because he did a lot of things in this country in a year, like giving them a good education, and increasing their production.
evp	production	noun	3	B2	when someone controls how a film, play, program, or musical recording is made	She's hoping to get into television production.	Indeed, Northwood cinema enables people to discover films from all over the world - from a small Brazilian production to a 3 hour Bollywood movie.
evp	productive	adjective	1	B2	producing a good or useful result	We had a very productive meeting and worked out a lot of the problems.	Some people think that by keeping animals in a zoo we can observe them, and try to understand the way they live] of course, you can learn things, but it would be more productive to observe them when they are free.
evp	productive	adjective	2	B2	producing a large amount of goods, food, work, etc.	productive people/employees/workers/members	When the weather is good, I am in the appropriate mood to be productive at work.
evp	productivity	noun	1	C1	the rate at which goods are produced or work is done	We need to increase productivity by 50%.	Though time-consuming, these staff would need to undergo re-training to be able to achieve the highest level of productivity, besides getting accustomed to the nick-nacks of the Production Department.
evp	profession	noun	1	B1	a type of work that needs special training or education	What's your profession?	As I look back at my past, the most embarrassing moments in my life seem to have something to do with my profession, which is an interpreter from Hungarian.
evp	profession	noun	2	B2	the people who do a type of work considered as a group	The medical profession has expressed concern about the new drug.	One day, when I had an exam, the examiner asked me questions about the legal profession.
evp	professional	adjective	1	B1	Someone is professional if they earn money for a sport or activity that most people do as a hobby.	a professional athlete/musician	For example, I met a boy last week and at the end he told me that his father is a professional football player.
evp	professional	adjective	2	B1	showing skill and careful attention	a professional attitude	My teacher is English, her name is Bronye, she's very professional, and nice.
evp	professional	adjective	3	B2	relating to a job that needs special training or education	You need talent and training to play professional sports.	I want to play safe by saying that I am not an architect, therefore I am not able to give professional advice.
evp	professional	noun	1	B2	someone who earns money for playing a sport or doing an activity that most other people do as a hobby	She has qualified to compete as a professional.	Finally, I wondered whether it would be possible to explain how long it takes an amateur to become a professional. Despite knowing almost nothing about tennis I would like to win a championship in the future.
evp	professional	noun	2	C2	someone who does a job that needs special training or education	health professionals	Computer skills and knowledge are really important for researchers and media professionals.
evp	professor	noun	1	B1	a teacher of the highest rank in a department of a British university, or a teacher of high rank in an American university or college	Professor Stephen Hawking	To put it in a nutshell I was astonished at how they weren't able to get on using that assortment of high ranked university professors of social science, and were requiring my help.
evp	profile	noun	1	B2	a short description of a person, organization, etc., giving the main details about them	He's updated his Facebook profile.	I hope the above information suits the profile of the person you are looking for for the job.
evp	profile	noun	2	C1	the amount of public attention that someone or something receives	The firm has a high profile due to the recent media coverage.	I believe that this is a great idea, as it will help raise the profile of our club in our college, and therefore may help increase interest in the club and possibly its membership.
evp	profile	noun	3	C1	to try not to be noticed	She has kept a low profile since the divorce.	Finally, I believe that the best way to handle these issues is to try to keep a low profile at all times and to remain indifferent to gossip.
evp	profit	noun	1	B2	money that you get from selling goods or services for more than they cost to produce or provide	She makes a big profit recycling cloth to sell to textile companies.	Also, supermarket owners have put in a vast amount of money to find out the best way to display goods in order to get the most profit.
evp	profitable	adjective	1	B2	resulting in or likely to result in a profit or an advantage	Over the years it has developed into a highly profitable business.	It is a very profitable business.
evp	profitable	adjective	2	C1	useful or likely to give you an advantage	a profitable discussion	The 'language-shower', as it is called, can sometimes be more productive, efficient and profitable in terms of assimilating knowledge than any course given by highly esteemed professors.
evp	profoundly	adverb	1	C2	in a profound way	I think this approach is profoundly misguided.	In my opinion the reason why Olivia left Douglas was not so much that she didn't love him as the fact that she was profoundly bored by the life she conducted in India.
evp	program	noun	1	A2	a show on television or radio	Did you see that program about spiders last night?	If you liked that program, you should check the Discovery Channel, although I don't watch it.
evp	program	noun	2	A2	a series of instructions which can be put into a computer in order to make it perform an operation	a computer program	In this lesson, we are taught with interactive material. For example, the other day we used this computer program where we could change the sentences and see the different meanings.
evp	program	noun	3	B2	a plan of events or activities with a particular purpose	Jesse has started a training program and hopes to run the New York Marathon next year.	Mathematics and Physics are the most important parts of our program.
evp	programmer	noun	1	C1	someone who writes computer programs as a job	We employ six programmers on the project.	I'm a 35-year old programmer in a small company.
evp	programming	noun	1	B2	when someone writes computer programs	We learned how to do programming.	I am mostly interested in computer graphics and general purpose programming.
evp	progress	noun	1	B1	development and improvement of skills, knowledge, etc.	I don't feel that I'm making much progress in learning Spanish.	I will check new words, their meanings and pronunciations, to make progress for missed sessions.
evp	progress	noun	2	B2	happening or being done now	Repair work is in progress on several roads including I-78, and will continue until June.	[In] the lower part of your advertisement, it also said there was a theater restaurant, but in fact, it was closed because internal decoration was in progress.
evp	progress	verb	1	B2	to improve or develop in skills, knowledge, etc.	My Spanish never really progressed to fluency.	I have to warn you than I'm not an expert in terms of musical basics, but I'm eager to learn them because I know no-one can progress without learning them; so the main job will be to do that.
evp	progress	verb	2	C2	to continue gradually	I began to feel more relaxed as the evening progressed.	As the evening progressed we got to see some of the local dances as well as a play performed by a band of gypsies.
evp	progression	noun	1	C1	when something or someone changes to the next stage of development	a logical/natural progression	Sharing information between people is a crucial point of peoples' education and it can help in their career progression.
evp	progressive	adjective	1	B2	thinking or behaving in a new or modern way	progressive ideas/attitudes	I hear that some progressive companies don't really approve of company cars and are trying to keep them to a minimum.
evp	progressive	adjective	2	C1	developing or happening gradually	There's been a progressive decline in the standard of living over the past few years.	It was not a quick change, on the contrary it was a progressive change which was accelerated by some factors during the last two decades.
evp	prohibit	verb	1	B2	to officially forbid something	Trucks are prohibited from driving on the parkways.	Perhaps we should prohibit the traffic and create a new cheap bus service for the inhabitants and the tourists.
evp	project	noun	1	A2	a piece of school work that involves detailed study of a subject	He's doing a class project on pollution.	I need my laptop because I saved my school project o] it.
evp	project	noun	2	B2	a carefully planned piece of work that has a particular purpose	a scientific research project	It is also related to my research project.
evp	projection	noun	1	C1	a calculation or guess about the future based on information that you have	government projections of population growth	Japan, on the other side, had a slight decrease from 1940 to 1960, very little increase 1960 to 1980, and then it goes up to be the highest country that has population aged 65 and over (2040 projection: more than 25%).
evp	projection	noun	2	C1	when a movie or an image is projected onto a screen or wall	the projection of moving images	Talks and slide projection could be interesting for o]lde people but not so exciting for younger people, who would prefer some more "active" entertainment like visits to discos, barbecues, quiz night, karaoke nights, fancy-dress parties and other similar happenings.
evp	prolong	verb	1	C1	to make something last longer	Eating a good diet can prolong your life.	However, nobody expects the strike to be prolonged for more than a week.
evp	prolonged	adjective	1	C1	continuing for a long time	a prolonged illness	What surprised us was the prolonged delay we had to suffer during our departure from Heathrow.
evp	prominent	adjective	1	C1	important or famous	a prominent figure in history	It starts with two very important works of Albrecht Durer, one of the most prominent painters of his time, not only in Germany.
evp	prominent	adjective	2	C2	very easy to see or notice	New books are displayed in a prominent position at the front of the store.	A large map of Cyprus holds a prominent place in his store.
evp	promise	verb	1	B1	to say that you will certainly do something or that something will certainly happen	She promised to write to me every week.	I promise that I will cover the work that you've done in class and I will send it to you the day after.
evp	promise	verb	2	B1	to say that you will certainly give something to someone	They promised us a reward.	And as a good friend, he has promised me an invitation to the wedding.
evp	promise	verb	3	B2	If something promises to be good, exciting, etc., people expect that it will be good, exciting, etc.	It promises to be a really exciting game.	I'm looking forward to starting this trip with you and Chris. It promises to be very exciting!
evp	promise	noun	1	B1	when you say that you will certainly do something	I'll put my things away tonight - and that's a promise!	Don't forget your promise to not just visit but stay at my place.
evp	promise	noun	2	B2	to do/not do what you said that you would do	If I make a promise, I like to keep it.	In addition, you didn't keep your promise.
evp	promising	adjective	1	C1	likely to be very good or successful in the future	a promising student	Secondly, increasing public transportation, such as buses, trains, and etc., is another promising measure.
evp	promote	verb	1	B1	to give someone a more important job in the same organization	If I'm not promoted within the next two years, I'm going to change jobs.	She invited me to a party because her husband had been promoted in his job.
evp	promote	verb	2	B2	to advertise something	The band is promoting their new album.	At that moment I and a large number of people behind me discovered that I was talking to a person made out of wax. [It] was there to promote the museum.
evp	promote	verb	3	C1	to encourage something to happen or develop	to promote peace	A notable exception is the advertising of so-called "slow-food" restaurants, which promote a healthy lifestyle.
evp	promotion	noun	1	B2	when someone is given a more important job in the same organization	Did Steve get the promotion he wanted?	I would like to congratulate you o] your promotion.
evp	promotion	noun	2	B2	activities to advertise something	a sales promotion	About the meal pointed out in your leaflet, could you tell me if it's a part of the offer and is the breakfast included in the promotion too?
evp	promotion	noun	3	C1	when you encourage something to happen or develop	the promotion of a healthy lifestyle	I would like an education more based on the needs of the country, but not only on the economic ones but also on the spiritual ones, such as the development of a cultural identity, the promotion of the arts, and the encouragement of an ecologically friendly way of producing wealth for the country as a whole.
evp	prompt	adjective	1	B2	done or acting quickly and without waiting, or arriving at the correct time	prompt payment	I look forward to your prompt reply.
evp	prompt	verb	1	C2	to make someone decide to say or do something	What prompted you to say that?	What really touched my heart and prompted me to write this letter was the recently published series of articles about favorite possessions.
evp	promptly	adverb	1	B2	quickly, without delay, or at the arranged time	We have to leave promptly if we want to catch that train.	It provides a business lunch which is not very expensive and is served promptly.
evp	pronoun	noun	1	B1	a word that is used instead of a noun or a noun phrase	Pronouns are often used to refer to a noun that has already been mentioned.	
evp	pronounce	verb	1	B1	to make the sound of a letter or word	How do you pronounce your last name?	During the lesson many foreign students discover how to pronounce words in English.
evp	pronunciation	noun	1	B1	how words are pronounced	Mario's English pronunciation is excellent.	My teacher is a friendly young man called Peter. He comes from Scotland and this means that his accent and pronunciation are quite different.
evp	proof	noun	1	B2	a fact or a piece of information that shows something exists or is true	She showed us her passport as proof of her identity.	The smile of a child is the best proof of the utility of zoos.
evp	propaganda	noun	1	C2	information or ideas, which are often false, that an organization prints or broadcasts to make people agree with what it is saying	political propaganda	It is clear that photographs, just as TV, can show the truth while at the same time concealing it. [...] It is a sign of the degree of democracy in a society, whether they act as reliable witnesses or as tools of propaganda.
evp	proper	adjective	1	B1	correct or suitable	the proper way to do something	He is unable to speak proper English.
evp	properly	adverb	1	B1	correctly, or in a satisfactory way	It's still not working properly.	Unfortunately my bicycle is not working properly, so I was just wondering if I could borrow yours[?]
evp	proper noun	noun	1	B2	a word or group of words that is the name of a person or place and always begins with a capital letter	"London" is a proper noun.	
evp	property	noun	1	B1	objects that belong to someone	The books you borrow remain the property of the library.	All at once, they abandoned their sacks of stolen property and ran for their lives!
evp	property	noun	2	B2	a building or area of land	He owns a number of properties in the downtown area.	But the villagers left their homes and all t]hi property and migrated towards cities in search of better facilities.
evp	proportion	noun	1	C1	a part of a total number or amount	Children make up a large proportion of the world's population.	Still, a great proportion of those surveyed mentioned your friendly staff as your strong point.
evp	proportion	noun	2	C2	If something is out of proportion, it is much bigger or smaller than it should be, when compared to other things.	The punishment is completely out of proportion to the crime.	If you were doing it to make a profit, I could understand, but for a library it is just out of proportion and I even believe more people could be attracted if the prices decrease.
evp	proportion	noun	3	C2	If something changes in proportion to another thing, it changes to the same degree as that thing.	Your tax payment increases in proportion to your salary.	One aspect of the question is the fact that a sportsman's salary is supposedly not in proportion to the number of hours he works.
evp	proposal	noun	1	B2	a suggestion for a plan	a proposal to raise taxes	I would like you to consider my proposal and give me your response as soon as possible.
evp	proposal	noun	2	B2	when someone asks someone to marry them	As a young woman, she received several proposals.	After this, things went perfectly well, and Mary accepted his proposal to marry him.
evp	propose	verb	1	B2	to suggest a plan or action	I propose that we delay our decision until we have more information.	I think the most important thing is that you understand our language. So I propose that you attend a school for the first two months.
evp	propose	verb	2	B2	to intend to do something	They propose to cycle across Iowa.	I propose to build a new hotel following the traditional architecture of the village.
evp	propose	verb	3	B2	to ask someone to marry you	He proposed to me on my birthday.	First he caught everybod[y's] attention and straightaway he proposed marriage to her.
evp	proposed	adjective	1	B2	suggested as an idea or plan	The proposed road would cut right through the forest.	I will need information about the price of the proposed vacation.
evp	proposition	noun	1	C1	an offer or suggestion, usually in business	an attractive/interesting proposition	If you will consider this proposition positively, then we would like to produce a deal for you to become our only importer in Britain.
evp	prosecute	verb	1	C2	to officially accuse someone of committing a crime in a court of law, or (of a lawyer) to try to prove that a person accused of committing a crime is guilty of that crime	Shoplifters will be prosecuted.	Moreover, if our only worry is making money, we could be tempted to get involved in black market business, but that way we would run the risk of being prosecuted and brought to justice.
evp	prosecutor	noun	1	C2	a lawyer who prosecutes people	Prosecutors allege that she knew about the plan.	However, it was after her graduation that her life began to change: she took a Public Examination in order to become a prosecutor.
evp	prospect	noun	1	B2	the possibility that something good might happen in the future	Is there any prospect of the weather improving?	With our effort, I am sure things will be realized and the prospect is bright]
evp	prospect	noun	2	B2	the possibility of being successful	The course will improve his career prospects.	I could learn many things from picking fruit and vegetables and improve my job prospects.
evp	prospect	noun	3	C2	the idea of something that will happen in the future	We face the prospect of having to start all over again.	They were bewildered at the prospect of beginning a new life there.
evp	prosper	verb	1	C2	If a person or business prospers, they do well, especially financially.	The government needs to create conditions where business can prosper.	The standards have to be readjusted to give the old and experienced members of society a new role in which they can prosper and still contribute to the benefit of all.
evp	prosperity	noun	1	C1	when a person or group of people is successful, usually by earning a lot of money	Our nation's prosperity comes from oil.	It is a typical tradition and the rice means prosperity for the couple.
evp	prosperous	adjective	1	C1	successful, usually by earning a lot of money	He is a prosperous car dealer.	Of course our employees will also benefit from the company becoming more prosperous.
evp	prostitute	noun	1	C1	someone whose job is having sex with people	There were a lot of prostitutes working in the area.	Some people say they are prostitutes while others deny it.
evp	protagonist	noun	1	C2	the main character in a play, movie, or story	The protagonist is a singer named "Jed."	The male protagonist, Anatolij Wonoseltsen, a divorcee with two children, abandoned by his wife, is hoping to get a promotion to be able to provide for the family.
evp	protect	verb	1	B1	to keep someone or something safe from something dangerous or bad	clothing that protects you against the cold	Hats protect me from the sun (my skin is very sensitive to the sun) and they are also pretty cool.
evp	protection	noun	1	B2	the act of protecting or state of being protected	Development of land near the reservoirs is restricted for the protection of the water supply.	I had to write an article about the protection of our environment and it seems that mine was the best!
evp	protective	adjective	1	B2	giving protection	protective clothing	Besides, I don't want to wear any protective head-gear, which all the riders are obliged to wear.
evp	protective	adjective	2	C1	wanting to protect someone from criticism, hurt, danger, etc. because you like them	It's easy to be too protective towards/of your children.	She is very protective with children in her custody and can get very aggressive to protect them from strangers or dogs.
evp	protein	noun	1	C1	food such as meat, cheese, fish, or eggs that is necessary for the body to grow and be strong	Nuts and fish both contain protein.	In miso soup, a lot of ingredients which have protein are used, and protein is a useful element to keep our body healthy.
evp	protest	noun	1	B2	when people show that they disagree with something by standing somewhere, shouting, carrying signs, etc.	a public protest against the war	I believe that we could force the authorities to do something for us by joining together in a very big protest.
evp	protest	verb	1	B2	to show that you disagree with something by standing somewhere, shouting, carrying signs, etc.	Why are those people protesting outside the administration building?	Undoubtedly, the human rights' defenders would protest.
evp	protest	verb	2	B2	to say something forcefully or complain about something	They protested, but no one would listen.	I'd also like to point out that although the service is pleasant, it's a bit slow, which often makes the customers impatient and leads them to protest.
evp	proud	adjective	1	B1	feeling very pleased about something you have done, something you own, or someone you know	She was so proud of her son.	Anyway I am so happy to hear that. I'm really proud of you.
evp	proud	adjective	2	B2	to not be able to do something, especially ask for help, because you are too embarrassed	He's too proud to ask you for any money.	She didn't want people to see her like this. She was too proud, too proud...
evp	proudly	adverb	1	B2	in a way that shows you are pleased about something you have done, something you own, or someone you know	He proudly held out his trophy for us to admire.	My friend" said John proudly "If you have the right connections, nothing is impossible."
evp	prove	verb	1	B1	to show that something is true	Can you prove that you weren't there?	It was really stressful because I wanted to prove that the level of my English is high enough for this class but I was too nervous to speak correctly.
evp	prove	verb	2	B2	to show a particular result or quality after a period of time	The operation proved a complete success.	John proved to be a good friend and I really thank him for what he did for me.
evp	prove	verb	3	C2	to show that you are good at something	I wish he'd stop trying to prove himself all the time.	Two weeks ago his coach had told him: "Morisson, you're going to play No.9 on Saturday against United, and it's going to be your last chance to prove yourself."
evp	proverb	noun	1	C2	a famous phrase or sentence which gives you advice	an ancient Chinese proverb	A well-known proverb says: "You should eat to live and not live to eat".
evp	provide	verb	1	B1	to give someone something that they need	This brochure provides useful information about/on the new health insurance plans.	The restaurant provides excellent service.
evp	provide	verb	2	C2	to make plans in order to deal with a possible event in the future	We must provide for depreciation when calculating the costs.	It is difficult to tell what or who should provide for retired workers in the future.
evp	provider	noun	1	C1	someone who provides something	an Internet service provider	I would like to complain about my gas and electricity provider Energy Plus.
evp	province	noun	1	C2	one of the large areas which some countries are divided into because of the type of government they have	the Canadian province of Alberta	Actually, it was never my intention to cross North America from coast to coast, but to travel around some cities in the provinces of Ontario and Quebec.
evp	provincial	adjective	1	C2	relating to or typical of the provinces	a provincial town	Tolerance and affection were there too, but living in a provincial part of France, I remember quite a number of old-fashion[ed] thoughts that I disliked strongly.
evp	provision	noun	1	C1	when something is provided	The provision of good public transportation will be essential for developing the area.	Following serious complaints from students, I have read through the three proposals given to me regarding provision of food in the institute.
evp	provocation	noun	1	C2	when someone makes you angry	He'll start a fight at the slightest provocation.	He carried out his professional duties with dignity and under the most severe provocation.
evp	provoke	verb	1	C2	to cause a strong and usually angry reaction	to provoke an argument	On their coming back, they show these pictures to their neighbors to provoke the feelings of jealousy mixed with admiration.
evp	proximity	noun	1	C2	when something is near to something else	What's good about this hotel is its proximity to the airport.	In conclusion it can be said that the Schelde is a very interesting river which gives its surrounding citizens quite a few positive and negative reasons for living in its proximity.
evp	psychiatrist	noun	1	C2	a doctor who is trained in psychiatry	He was referred to a psychiatrist.	He is a psychiatrist, she is doing her degree in geology.
evp	psychological	adjective	1	B2	relating to the human mind and feelings	psychological problems	To sum up, taking up team sports is important for school children as they are provided with important psychological and social experiences vital for their lives.
evp	psychologically	adverb	1	B2	in a way that is connected to a person's psychological state	They are bright, happy children and healthy both physically and psychologically.	It makes us like robots and we feel bad psychologically, because we want to be different and free to wear what we want]
evp	psychologist	noun	1	B2	someone who studies the human mind and human emotions and behavior, and how different situations have an effect on them	a child psychologist	Some psychologists claim that forcing pupils to study subjects they don't like can be frustrating for them or even reduce their intellectual potential.
evp	psychology	noun	1	B2	the scientific study of the way the human mind works and how it influences behavior, or the influence of a particular person's character on their behavior	She studied psychology at Harvard.	I think it would be a nice experience for me because I am studying psychology.
evp	pub	noun	1	C1	a type of bar where you can get beer and other drinks and usually Irish- or English-style food	There's a nice pub called The Old Toad in Rochester.	Today, advertising has promoted a lot the Irish culture with pubs.
evp	public	adjective	1	B1	provided by the government from taxes to be available to everyone	public schools/education	If you want to join us, we'll meet at 7 pm in front of the public library.
evp	public	adjective	2	B2	relating to or involving people in general, rather than being limited to a particular group of people	Public opinion has turned against him.	I would like to add that when it comes to public opinion there is a great variety of different points of view - that is why this article, which asserts that "performers were second-rate,'' seems to be unfair.
evp	public	adjective	3	C2	an announcement/appearance/statement, etc. that can be seen or heard or known by everyone	The governor is due to make a public statement later today.	Therefore, Gonzalo never attempted to make a public statement to defend himself and underestimated the harm it could cause to his public image.
evp	public	adjective	4	C2	to allow everyone to know about something	The government does not plan to make its findings public.	According to the scientific method of research, one should only make a discovery or conclusion public after deep testing and, even after that, this fact should never be taken as the most complete and definitive truth about any given subject.
evp	public	noun	1	B1	all ordinary people	The public has a right to know about this.	That is great, because during this season a lot of towns usually celebrate and have parties in which you can dance, drink, eat and do one of the several activities that they offer to the public.
evp	public	noun	2	B2	in a place where other people, especially people you do not know, can hear you and see what you are doing	He shouldn't behave like that in public.	This shyness makes it hard for me to speak in public, or even to go out with my friends as often as I should.
evp	public	noun	3	C1	to be famous and often featured in the media	Her new role means that she will be in the public eye.	But being famous also means that you are always in the public eye, which is a major drawback.
evp	publication	noun	1	B2	a book, magazine, newspaper or document in which information or stories are published	Our latest publication is a magazine for surfers.	Dear Sir, I am taking the opportunity to write to you as I used your publication "The Student Tourist Guidebook" during my last trip to Lampton.
evp	publication	noun	2	B2	the act of making information or stories available to people in a printed form	The brochure will be ready for publication in September.	First, I would like to thank you for the publication of this article.
evp	publicity	noun	1	B2	advertising or information about someone or something in the newspaper, on television, etc.	bad/good publicity	I'm sure they will come thanks to the publicity the Festival had this year.
evp	publicly	adverb	1	C1	If something is done publicly, it is done so that everyone can know about it	The company publicly apologized and agreed to contribute some money to charity.	It would be a sound opportunity for our singers to perform their new albums and make their work publicly known.
evp	public transportation	noun	1	B1	a system of vehicles such as buses and trains which operate at regular times on fixed routes and are used by the public	What's needed is better public transportation.	I strongly recommend you to use public transportation in order to get there, be]caus you may find other types of transportation quite expensive.
evp	publish	verb	1	B1	to make information available to people, especially in a book, magazine or newspaper, or to produce and sell a book, magazine or newspaper	She just had an article published in their weekend supplement.	On[e] of his stories was published by the weekly newspaper.
evp	publisher	noun	1	B2	a company or person who prepares and prints books, newspapers, magazines, etc.	He works for a publisher in Edinburgh.	Finally, I think that publishers are so worried about their earnings that they don't pay attention to new writers.
evp	pudding	noun	1	B2	a sweet, soft food made from milk, sugar, eggs and flavoring and usually eaten cold	chocolate/vanilla/butterscotch pudding	And of course, while Italy is exporting pizza, spaghetti and foods like that, Italian people are able to try different food from foreign countries, like hamburger, Chinese food or pudding.
evp	pull	verb	1	A2	to take hold of something and move it toward you	He pulled the box across the floor to the door.	The man that pulled me into the house had a familiar face but I didn't recognize him.
evp	pull	verb	2	B1	to take hold of something and use physical effort to remove it from somewhere	I pulled the plug out.	My tv is broken because of my little sister: she pulled out the cable.
evp	pull	verb	3	B2	to take hold of something and use effort to move your body forward or up	She pulled herself up the stairs, holding onto the rail.	Rollo and the police ran after him and then Rollo fired wounding Harry, who started to pull himself up the stairs to a manhole above his head and then he died.
evp	pull	verb	4	C2	to injure a muscle by stretching it too much	I pulled a muscle in my leg when I was skiing.	
evp	pull	verb	5	C2	to work as hard as other people in a group	The rest of the team complained that Sarah wasn't pulling her weight.	For instance, before your kin get all nice and comfortable, you could ask them to pull their weight around the house by doing a few jobs.
evp	pull	verb	6	C2	to secretly use the influence that you have over important people to get something or to help someone	I may be able to pull a few strings, if you need the money urgently.	This isn't secret: I thought some of these ideas might be of interest and perhaps an article about them i] your newspaper would pull the necessary strings at the City Hall to produce some very much needed changes.
evp	pull	verb	7	B2	to destroy a building	They pulled down the warehouse to build a new supermarket.	In addition to that, I'd do my very best to persuade the city council to arrange for the old, ugly houses to be pulled down as quickly as possible.
evp	pull	verb	8	B2	If a vehicle pulls in or pulls into somewhere, it moves in that direction and stops there.	They just pulled into the driveway.	He killed her and threw her body out of the train not far from the station, when the train was pulling in.
evp	pull	verb	9	B2	If a vehicle pulls out, it starts moving onto a road or onto a different part of the road.	That car pulled out right in front of me.	
evp	pull	verb	10	B2	If a vehicle pulls over, it moves to the side of the road and stops.	I was looking for somewhere to pull over so I could look at the map.	
evp	pull	verb	11	B2	If a vehicle pulls up, it stops, often for a short time.	A car pulled up outside the bank and two men got out.	I was walking home late one evening, when a car pulled up alongside me.
evp	pullover	noun	1	B1	a warm piece of clothing that covers the top of your body and is pulled on over your head	a black, wool pullover	My favorite pullover is one with small hearts.
evp	pulse	noun	1	C1	the regular movement of blood through your body when your heart is beating	She put her fingers on my wrist to take my pulse 
                         (=count the number of beats per minute).	Nowadays, stressful things are all around you. They have bad effects on your work, private life or education, as well as sometimes causing you health problems such as high blood pressure, an irregular pulse, etc.
evp	pulse	noun	2	C2	to be/stay familiar with the most recent changes or improvements	The situation changes daily, so you've got to keep your finger on the pulse.	It wouldn't be clever to hire people who are completely ignorant about music and they must constantly keep their finger on the pulse of the music industry.
evp	pump	noun	1	B1	a piece of equipment which is used to cause liquid, air or gas to move from one place to another	a water/gas pump	You need to connect an oxygen pump supplying oxygen which is required by goldfish.
evp	punch	noun	1	B2	when you hit someone or something with your fist	a punch on the nose	He gave me a punch and we started to fight.
evp	punch	verb	1	B2	to hit someone or something with your fist	He punched him in the stomach.	She started crying and she punched me!
evp	punctuation	noun	1	B1	the use of punctuation marks in writing so that people can see when a sentence begins and ends, that something is a question, etc.	His letter was completely without punctuation.	
evp	punish	verb	1	B1	to make someone suffer because they have done something bad	Those responsible for these crimes must be brought to court and punished.	I'll be punished by my parents, because [I told them a lie.
evp	punishment	noun	1	B2	when someone is punished	He had to stay in his bedroom as a punishment for fighting.	I was punished, nearly expelled, but Pat didn't receive any punishment.
evp	pupil	noun	1	B1	a person who is being taught, especially in a class	elementary school pupils	The other pupils seemed really nice and we had a very interesting lesson.
evp	puppy	noun	1	B1	a young dog	a litter of puppies	I came with my mum, dad and brother. We took our puppy also.
evp	purchase	verb	1	B2	to buy	Tickets must be purchased two weeks in advance.	Of course I was able to purchase a second-hand one but I thought that it was a good investment to have a new computer with up-to-date software.
evp	purchase	noun	1	B2	something that you buy	How do you wish to pay for your purchases?	I guess, you are right, I did not tell you last week about my plan concerning my future purchase. Now I'm sure, I'd like to buy a bicycle.
evp	purchase	noun	2	B2	the act of buying something	New restrictions have been placed on the purchase of land near the reservoir.	Report on the purchase of English videos
evp	pure	adjective	1	B1	A pure substance is not mixed with anything else.	pure gold	Its domes are made of pure copper, inside there's a big bell called "Zygmunt".
evp	pure	adjective	2	B1	clean and healthy	The mountain air was wonderfully pure.	The weather is sunny, the gentle breeze is pure and fresh.
evp	pure	adjective	3	B2	used to emphasize that a feeling, quality, or state is completely and only that thing	pure
coincidence	It switches your mind off and stretches all your muscles at the same time. It's pure refreshment!
evp	purely	adverb	1	C1	only	She married him purely for his money.	And we had to arrange our social programme purely by ourselves.
evp	purity	noun	1	C1	the quality of being pure	It is important to preserve the purity of our air and water.	The beauty, purity and power of Chinese poems is hard to resist.
evp	purple	adjective	1	A2	of a dark reddish blue color	purple plums	It's pink with purple stars.
evp	purple	noun	1	A2	a dark reddish blue color	Purple is my favorite color.	I'm going to use pink in my bedroom, purple in the living room and white in the kitchen.
evp	purpose	noun	1	B1	why you do something or why something exists	The primary purpose of the meeting is to discuss the future of the company.	I think the purpose of it was to make the atmosphere more relaxed.
evp	purpose	noun	2	B1	intentionally	I didn't do it on purpose, it was an accident.	I didn't do it on purpose; it was dark and I just walked into it.
evp	purpose	noun	3	C2	to have a use	These small community centers serve a very useful purpose.	They introduced meetings at Miss Kenton's parlor which were held every evening and served the purpose of discussing house running.
evp	purpose	noun	4	C2	the feeling of knowing what you want to do	He seems to have lost all sense of purpose.	Emotional stability, a sense of purpose and direction in life, true and deep relationships with the people around us, all these issues are equally, if not more, important than economic security.
evp	purpose	noun	5	C2	in all the most important ways	To all intents and purposes, the project was a disaster.	To all intents and purposes, the qualities needed to achieve success are based on the same ideas.
evp	purse	noun	1	A2	a small bag for money, keys, makeup, etc. carried especially by women	Her shoes and purse always match.	I think I left my purse at your house last night.
evp	pursue	verb	1	C1	If you pursue a plan, activity, or situation, you try to do it or achieve it, usually over a long period of time.	She decided to pursue a career in television.	I will be shortly pursuing a degree course in computing and I would like to obtain first the entry qualification that is required for the degree course.
evp	pursuit	noun	1	C2	when you try to achieve a plan, activity, or situation, usually over a long period of time	the pursuit of pleasure	Nevertheless, despite these claims, the primary motivation for any self-respecting athlete is the pursuit of excellence, attaining cutting-edge skills in their sport.
evp	push	verb	1	A2	to move someone or something by pressing them with your hands or body	Can you help me move this table? You push and I'll pull.	Someone pushed me into the water.
evp	push	verb	2	B1	to move somewhere by moving someone or something away from you	Please, no pushing! There's plenty of room on the bus for everyone.	
evp	push	verb	3	B1	to press something	If you push this button, the seat goes back.	I was feeling very angry when I pushed the answer button.
evp	push	verb	4	B2	to try hard to achieve something or to make someone do something	Local residents are pushing for a traffic light to be put at this busy intersection.	Governments should push young artists to get involved in their work.
evp	push	verb	5	B2	to make yourself work very hard in order to achieve something	She really pushed herself when she was in school.	Don't push yourself too hard and remember to drink more water.
evp	push	verb	6	C1	to try to make someone do something that they do not want to do	My mother pushed me into having ballet lessons.	The biggest help though was my parents who were really understanding and didn't push me too hard into learning English and that is why I succeeded.
evp	push	noun	1	B1	when you move someone or something by pressing them with your hands or body	Get on the swing and I'll give you a push.	The door was open, so I gave it a push.
evp	push	noun	2	C1	encouragement to make someone do something	I'm sure he'll go, he just needs a little push that's all.	I knew before what I was capable of doing but I really needed a push.
evp	push	noun	3	C2	If you say that something can be done if push comes to shove, you mean that it can be done if the situation becomes so bad that you have to do it.	If push comes to shove, we'll just have to sell the car.	There are several options you can choose from when push comes to shove.
evp	pushy	adjective	1	C2	behaving in an unpleasant way by trying too much to get something or to make someone do something	a pushy salesman	It's bad enough that pushy parents try to turn their children into sports or music stars for the only reason to fulfill their own, never-achieved ambitions.
evp	puzzle	noun	1	A2	a game or activity in which you have to put pieces together or answer questions using skill	a jigsaw puzzle	For presents I got a really nice pen, a puzzle and a watch
evp	puzzle	noun	2	C2	a situation which is very difficult to understand	Scientists have been trying to solve this puzzle for years.	As I watched the slow, emerging awareness of humanity, by a chthonic spirit (that of Death itself), coming to terms with the vast contradictions and the harsh, but also bliss-endowed human nature, the soft piano melody internalizing both a child's curiosity before the unknown, as well as an adult's awakening to what his life amounts to, I was thrilled, but also deeply saddened, for I felt that from worthy, meaning-filled fragments of the puzzle that life is, my own piecing together was incomplete: I could not prevent a small sob, which was, almost simultaneously, echoed.
evp	puzzle	verb	1	C1	to make someone confused because they do not understand something	I was puzzled by what he said.	Dear Fiona, I was really touched by your concern regarding our daily life at the moment but I was also quite puzzled.
evp	puzzled	adjective	1	B2	confused because you do not understand something	He first looked puzzled, then pleased..	To the editor, I am puzzled by the report which appeared on yesterday's page 2, concerning the Westfield Music Festival.
evp	pyramid	noun	1	C1	a shape with a square base and four triangular sides that meet to form a point at the top	The pile of stones was shaped like a pyramid.	The King was living in his great palace with a view of the biggest pyramid in the village, smaller ones were situated around it.
evp	quaint	adjective	1	C2	attractive or unusual in an old-fashioned way	a quaint little village	The quaint cafes would be replaced by McDonald's and the charm of the place would be lost.
evp	qualification	noun	1	B2	skills, experience, education, etc., that provide you with the ability do something, especially a job	My qualifications for this position include a degree in biochemistry and three years research experience.	I hope my qualifications will meet your requirements. Please do not hesitate to contact me if you want further information.
evp	qualification	noun	2	B2	a level of skill or education that you have achieved	Passing the advanced Red Cross life-saving course is a qualification for all our lifeguards.	I like being at the beach and swimming and recently got a qualification for an assistant life-guard on the beach.
evp	qualification	noun	3	C1	success in getting into a competition	Mexico's qualification for the World Cup.	The video tells how particular national teams got through their qualification for finals and then presents the most interesting games that took place in Italy '92.
evp	qualified	adjective	1	B2	having the standard of knowledge, experience, education, or ability you need to do or be something	She was highly qualified to run the State Department.	I don't think that anyone else in my country is qualified to take over his seat.
evp	qualify	verb	1	B2	to achieve or have the standard of knowledge, experience, education, or ability you need for a particular job	She was qualified to teach high school mathematics and physics.	I could give the band members "Shiatsu massage" just before the concert to make them relax!! Can you imagine how much I appreciated that I am qualified in massage?
evp	qualify	verb	2	B2	If you qualify for something, you are allowed to do it or have it.	I hope I'll qualify for financial aid to help pay for school.	
evp	qualify	verb	3	B2	to succeed in getting into a competition or in reaching a particular stage in a competition	Derrick won his tennis match and qualified for the semifinals.	I left the stadium disappointed, fearing that Portugal would not qualify for the World Championships once more.
evp	quality	noun	1	B1	how good or bad something is	good/high quality	A large school can offer more equipment to use and high quality education.
evp	quality	noun	2	B1	when something is very good or well made	I was impressed by the quality of their clothes.	They're more expensive than I expected but I prefer quality to quantity.
evp	quality	noun	3	B2	a part of someone's character	leadership qualities	Moreover, I have other qualities such as politeness, and I feel pleased when helping people, thus I am capable of looking after members of the public.
evp	quality	adjective	1	B1	very good	We only sell quality products in this store.	On the one hand, you usually have a lot of fun with your friends but on the other hand, it would be better to spend some quality time with your parents!
evp	quantity	noun	1	B1	the amount or number of something	a large/small quantity	I think you should go to the school in the center of the town; as you wrote, it's bigger, so you'll have the opportunity of making a huge quantity of friends!
evp	quantity	noun	2	B2	a lot of something	I'm just amazed at the quantity of food that gets eaten.	What surprised me was the quantity of incorrect figures reported in your article.
evp	quarrel	noun	1	B2	an argument	She had a quarrel with her neighbor.	Sometimes, we can have quarrels with our parents who refuse to support our ideas.
evp	quarrel	verb	1	B2	to argue	I was always quarreling with my brother.	John was 13 years old and his brother Michael was 7. They were very nice and funny but they were always quarreling.
evp	quarter	noun	1	A1	a period of 15 minutes before or after the hour	It's (a) quarter to three.	You can meet me at my house at a quarter to nine.
evp	quarter	noun	2	A2	one of four equal or almost equal parts of something; ¼	He cut the orange into quarters.	I really enjoy shopping for clothes and spend a quarter of my monthly salary for a year in shopping for jeans alone.
evp	quarter	noun	3	B2	a coin in the US and Canada worth 25 cents, or one fourth of a dollar	I need some quarters for the washing machine.	And the last thing but not the least, I was thinking if everybody put a quarter of a dollar in our box every week to help the poor people who live here, b]ehin us, it will help them a lot.
evp	quarter	noun	4	C2	an area of a city or place that has a special history or character	We stayed in the French Quarter in New Orleans.	It will surely add to the development of the Podgoize quarter but also will sustain the development of all the little shops in this area.
evp	queen	noun	1	A2	a woman who rules a country because she was born into a royal family, or a woman who is married to a king	Queen Victoria	You can visit the castle of Isabel II, a Spanish queen.
evp	quest	noun	1	C2	an attempt to get something or do something difficult	the quest for truth	This stimulation is essential in our quest for spiritual and emotional well-being and exerts a profound effect on our psyche.
evp	question	noun	1	A1	a sentence or phrase used to find out information	May I ask you a question?	Our teacher talks to us and gives us some questions.
evp	question	noun	2	A2	in a test or exam, a problem that tests a person's knowledge or ability	Answer as many questions as you can.	In the e-mail were the exam questions, and I felt very happy because I'll pass the test!
evp	question	noun	3	B2	a situation or problem that needs to be dealt with or considered	This raises the question of teacher pay.	Then it raises an important question: "[Do] museums provide enough to interest young people?"
evp	question	noun	4	B2	doubt or uncertainty	There's no question that this was an accidental fire.	There's no question that it was absolutely great!
evp	question	noun	5	C1	used for saying what the most important issue is in a situation	Someone needs to be here - it's a question of who would be the best person.	The choice is a question of price.
evp	question	noun	6	C2	If something is out of the question, it is not possible or not allowed.	Providing more money is out of the question.	Walking home was out of the question since that would have taken even longer.
evp	question	noun	7	C2	the person or thing that is being discussed	He sais that he was at a restaurant with his friends on the night in question.	While this is not necessarily false, it should be borne in mind that the events in question are by no means boring or uninteresting.
evp	question	noun	8	C2	to ask a question	It was left to Grazia to pose the question of how the project was to be funded.	For instance, you can pose a question concerning music to your listeners and the person who is going to call first to answer - correctly of course - will gain a small sum of money.
evp	question	verb	1	B2	to ask a person about something, especially officially	"What was she questioning you about?" "Oh, just about the schedule changes."	A total of 60 per cent of those questioned suggested that we should find sponsorship for all activities. 30 per cent of those questioned said that there are not enough seats in the reception area.
evp	question	verb	2	B2	to feel or express doubt about something	I'm not for a moment questioning your decision.	It may sound funny, but mud, gravel and snow lying on the school's floors is not a nice sight, so we change our shoes without questioning that rule.
evp	questionable	adjective	1	C2	possibly not true or correct	It is questionable whether that investment will pay off.	However, it is questionable whether this is possible.
evp	questionable	adjective	2	C2	not honest or not legal	He's being investigated for questionable business practices.	I am a policeman, or in fact, I used to be one until I was ejected from the department because of questionable procedures to enforce the law.
evp	question mark	noun	1	B1	the ? punctuation mark that is put at the end of a phrase or sentence to show that it is a question		
evp	questionnaire	noun	1	B1	a set of questions asked of a large number of people to discover information about a subject	Residents have been sent questionnaires about their homes and energy use.	I had to fill in a questionnaire about myself.
evp	quick	adjective	1	A1	doing something fast	I tried to catch him but he was too quick for me.	Call me right now at my home: 555-9684. Be quick!!!
evp	quick	adjective	2	A2	lasting a short time	Can I ask you a quick question?	Dear Teacher, This is just a quick note to apologize for missing tomorrow's class.
evp	quickly	adverb	1	A2	at a fast speed	I quickly shut the door.	It was fantastic match, because the football players run very quickly and they scored four goals.
evp	quickly	adverb	2	A2	after only a very short time	These people need to be treated as quickly as possible.	Give it to me as quickly as you can.
evp	quiet	adjective	1	A2	making little or no noise	Can you be quiet, please?	But now everything must change - after 10 pm we must be quiet.
evp	quiet	adjective	2	A2	without much activity or excitement	a quiet town/neighborhood	My house is near the hospital and it is in a very quiet area.
evp	quiet	adjective	3	B1	If someone is quiet, they talk very little.	He was a shy, quiet man.	He's a quiet person but I'm that too.
evp	quiet	adjective	4	C2	to not talk about something	It might be wise to keep this quiet for a while.	They tried to keep it quiet but, somehow, half the village knew about the news in a few days.
evp	quiet	noun	1	B2	when there is little or no noise	She needs a some peace and quiet.	At least if you were working in a museum, you would probably have some peace and quiet.
evp	quietly	adverb	1	B1	making little or no noise	"Don't worry," she said quietly.	They were talking quietly and just before getting into the car, they kissed.
evp	quietly	adverb	2	B1	doing something without much noise or activity	He sat quietly on the sofa, reading a book.	It was about eight o'clock in the evening, I was watching TV quietly in my living-room when the phone rang.
evp	quit	verb	1	B1	to leave a job	I hated the work so much that I quit.	Winning let me quit my job and I could afford to study more English than I used to do.
evp	quit	verb	2	B1	to stop doing something	I'm going to quit smoking.	And, last but not least, quit smoking!
evp	quite	adverb	1	A2	to a large degree	Casey is quite tall.	She bought me a dress for my aunt's wedding. It was quite expensive, approximately 300 euros.
evp	quite	adverb	2	A2	a large amount or number	They earn quite a lot of money.	There were quite a lot of people.
evp	quite	adverb	3	B1	completely	Quite frankly, the thought of performing terrifies me.	I'm quite sure you will love my country, especially the Amazon basins and the biggest rain-forest in the world!
evp	quite	adverb	4	B1	a long time	I hadn’t seen Rebecca in quite a while.	But although I have what you could call "simple" tastes, it takes me quite a while to decide what to buy.
evp	quite	adverb	5	B1	a lot	He does quite a bit of traveling.	We spent quite a bit of time going along the beach.
evp	quite	adverb	6	B2	almost but not completely	I'm not quite sure that I understand this.	The student café has a welcoming atmosphere and most people said it was nice to sit and to drink coffee there] [T]he only problem is that there are not quite enough tables and chairs for everyone at busy times.
evp	quite	adverb	7	B2	truly, really, or sincerely	It was quite a remarkable speech.	Moreover, the city is quite an interesting historical place, so you could visit some buildings such as the old castle or the local museum.
evp	quiz	noun	1	A2	a game or competition in which you answer questions	a television quiz show	My team won the quiz.
evp	quiz	noun	2	B1	a short informal test	We had a history quiz today.	Well, I have to go right now because I have to study for the quiz.
evp	quotation	noun	1	C2	a sentence or phrase that is taken from a book, poem, speech, etc.	a quotation from Shakespeare	Women also played an important role in his life, so it might also be a good idea to show pictures of his "muses" framed by quotations from his novels.
evp	quotation	noun	2	C2	the amount that a piece of work will probably cost	Make sure you get a quotation for all the work before they start.	I have attached a current quotation from the retailer who supplies that dining table.
evp	quotation marks	noun	1	B2	the " " punctuation marks that are put around a word or phrase to show that someone else has written or said it	Direct speech should be shown in quotation marks.	
evp	quote	verb	1	C1	to repeat the words that someone else has said or written	He illustrated by quoting from Winston Churchill's speech.	Let me quote another sentence: "...carefully selected host families."
evp	quote	verb	2	C1	to give a fact or example to support what you are saying	The judge quoted several cases to support his opinion.	We would like to quote some facts to support our points of view.
evp	quote	verb	3	C2	to say how much a piece of work will cost	The roofer quoted $3000 to fix the roof.	I have spoken to the service department at IKEA and they have quoted me £400 to fix the whole thing back to its original shape.
evp	quote	noun	1	C2	the repeat of words that someone else has said or written	Use plenty of quotes from her poems in your essay.	My beloved diary included hundreds of quotes and drawings, illustrating my most intimate thoughts.
evp	quote	noun	2	C2	a document or statement saying how much a piece of work will cost	I got three quotes for the work.	I have already obtained a quote to have the damage repaired.
evp	rabbit	noun	1	A2	a small animal with fur and long ears that lives in a hole in the ground	She has a pet rabbit.	I like rabbits very much because their fur is very soft, and white rabbits have pretty red eyes.
evp	race	noun	1	A2	a competition in which people run, ride, drive, etc., against each other in order to see who is the fastest	a horse/bike/boat race	That's really important because I only have one swimsuit and today I have a swimming race.
evp	race	noun	2	C1	one of the groups that people are divided into according to physical characteristics	people of many different races	A student was taught how to lead negotiations with a business partner regardless of their age, nationality, race and culture.
evp	race	noun	3	C1	an effort to get something such as power, control or success	It was a race against time to get the project finished by Friday’s deadline.	In a world where Capitalism has reached almost every little part of the world, where the race for power and money is the most important priority; little time and interest is left for old traditions.
evp	race	noun	4	C2	a competition to be elected to a political position	the race for governor	
evp	race	verb	1	B1	to compete in a race	He has been racing for over ten years.	Cycling has also given me the opportunity to race as well as train in Europe and the U.S.
evp	racial	adjective	1	B2	relating to people's race	a racial minority	It also prevents us from pre-judging foreign people, which is very important in a community where racial discrimination is common.
evp	racially	adverb	1	C1	in a way that is connected to someone's race	racially motivated attacks	He respects people's values and rights and can easily integrate and assert himself in a multi-cultural or racially diversified environment.
evp	racism	noun	1	B2	the belief that other races of people are not as good as your own, or the unfair treatment of people because they belong to a particular race	It's important to speak out about racism and injustice.	If we were all tolerant, racial segregation wouldn't exist. Hopefully racism is tending to disappear now]
evp	racist	noun	1	C2	someone who believes that other races of people are not as good as their own	Their boss was a racist.	That's something we should keep in mind, the next time you meet a racist.
evp	racist	adjective	1	C2	believing that other races are not as good as your own and therefore treating them unfairly	a racist attack	It's even getting worse because of immigration and serious incidents like racist attacks in Germany against Turks or Asian people.
evp	racket	noun	1	A2	a net fixed tightly to an oval frame with a long handle, used in various sports for hitting a ball	a tennis/squash/badminton racket	I got many presents such as a puppy, a badminton racket and many more things]
evp	racket	noun	2	C2	a loud noise	Go see why the kids are making such a racket.	However, my blissful thoughts were suddenly and rudely interrupted by the racket going on next door.
evp	radiation	noun	1	C1	a form of energy that comes from a nuclear reaction and that in large amounts can be very dangerous	dangerously high levels of radiation	It's true that in the last few years we have actually polluted much of our air with smoke or radiation from power plants, but we're working on that.
evp	radical	adjective	1	C1	A radical change is very big and important.	During bad economic times, radical steps may be necessary to restore the confidence of the consumer.	Have you ever wondered if tourism can bring radical changes in an area?
evp	radical	adjective	2	C2	believing that there should be big social and political changes	a radical group/movement	As a result, they tend to sympathize with more radical groups and parties in order to support a change in the current system.
evp	radical	noun	1	C2	someone who supports the idea that there should be big social and political changes	There are several radicals in the government.	While in College, Josephine got involved with a group of radicals who became in a way her second family.
evp	radically	adverb	1	C1	in a way that shows radical change or beliefs	The company has changed radically in recent years.	During the last decades our eating habits have changed radically in Sweden.
evp	radio	noun	1	A1	a piece of equipment used for listening to sound broadcasts	a car radio	I want to sell my radio.
evp	radio	noun	2	A1	the programs that you hear when you listen to the radio	We heard him talking on the radio this morning.	He likes watching television and listening to the radio.
evp	radio	noun	3	B1	a system of sending and receiving sound through the air	local radio	I'm thinking of calling the radio station to inform them about my situation.
evp	rage	noun	1	B2	very strong anger that you cannot control	My main feeling was one of rage.	However, they flew into a rage when one of Paul's friends was poisoned by the food, after having dinner in the hotel restaurant.
evp	rage	verb	1	C2	to speak or behave in a very angry way	He raged at us for forgetting to order a replacement.	Sobbing and raging she stomped into the bedroom, briskly opened the drawer and flung the framed picture showing them both at sunset on the coast of Fiji into it.
evp	rage	verb	2	C2	to continue with great force or violence	The battle raged well into the night.	It narrates the story of a group of children evacuated on an island somewhere in the Pacific Ocean while a war is raging elsewhere in Europe.
evp	raid	noun	1	C2	a planned, sudden attack on a place by a military group	an air raid	Back in England, he provided valuable information to the SAS to make the air raids more effective.
evp	raid	noun	2	C2	a planned, sudden visit to a place by police in order to find someone or something or stop an illegal activity	Thousands of dollars worth of counterfeit goods were seized during the raid.	Biko showed Donald the reality, of the black people in their country, the raids, the townships, the dark side of Government movements.
evp	raid	verb	1	C2	If soldiers raid a place, they suddenly attack it.	Armed soldiers raided the village.	She had started doing this 15 years ago, when mounted warriors, clad in black armor, had raided the farm she, along with her parents and three older brothers, had lived on.
evp	raid	verb	2	C2	If the police raid a place, they suddenly visit it in order to find someone or something or to stop an illegal activity.	The FBI said it had no plans to raid the suspect’s farm.	
evp	rail	noun	1	B1	trains as a method of transportation	Thousands of commuters travel to work by rail.	By rail: get off at York station and you can walk from the station. Turn left and the hotel is on your left-hand side.
evp	rail	noun	2	C2	a bar around or along something that you can hold for support to stop you from falling	a hand rail	However it could be much more comfortable if there were hand rails in the bathroom and a lower bed.
evp	railroad	noun	1	A2	the system of transportation that uses trains, or a company that runs trains	railroad tracks	
evp	rain	noun	1	A1	water that falls from the sky in small drops	heavy/light rain	I think tomorrow we will have rain.
evp	rain	verb	1	A1	If it rains, water falls from the sky in small drops.	It's starting to rain.	It was raining when I arrived.
evp	rainbow	noun	1	B2	a half circle of seven colors that you see in the sky when rain is falling and the sun is shining	We could see a rainbow.	We all were really wet, but then the sun shone again and we saw a wonderful rainbow.
evp	raincoat	noun	1	A2	a coat that you wear when it is raining	Make sure you take a raincoat.	Tony, I have left my raincoat in your house.
evp	rain forest	noun	1	B1	a forest in a tropical area which receives a lot of rain	a tropical rain forest	In the countryside we can hear birds singing, and we enjoy ourselves in the rain forest.
evp	rainy	adjective	1	B1	raining a lot	a rainy afternoon	On a rainy night, I was walking down the street with an umbrella.
evp	raise	verb	1	B1	to lift something to a higher position	Would all those in favor please raise their hands?	Many students raised their hands.
evp	raise	verb	2	B1	to increase an amount or level	The city council plans to raise taxes.	Another disadvantage could be to raise costs, which includes high taxes, etc.
evp	raise	verb	3	B2	to start talking about a subject that you want other people to consider	You've raised an interesting question.	Then it raises an important question: "[Do] museums provide enough to interest young people?"
evp	raise	verb	4	B2	to collect money from different people in order to do a particular thing	They were raising money for charity.	What I liked the most about it is not the fact that we raised a lot of money, but that we enjoyed an amazing show in which I took an active part.
evp	raise	verb	5	B2	to take care of a child until he or she is completely grown	Her parents died when she was a baby so she was raised by her grandparents.	I was born and raised on a Greek island called Evia.
evp	raise	verb	6	C1	to speak loudly and angrily to someone	Even when he was angry with his children, he never raised his voice.	Not every au-pair family is pleasant. And believe me, mine was giving me hell on earth. [...] After I returned home I took some time to learn not to freak out when someone raised his voice and eventually I started to see my time in Germany as a great lesson in life.
evp	raise	verb	7	C2	to cause emotions or thoughts	Her answers raised doubts in my mind.	Indeed due to the advancements in many technological fields, the educational program of our schools has been modified or adapted up to a point that raises doubts about its purpose and value.
evp	raise	noun	1	C1	an increase in the amount money you earn	a pay raise	It is also worth mentioning that, owing to my knowledge of English I received, last month, a promotion in my job and a raise in my salary, as well.
evp	rally	noun	1	C2	a large public meeting in support of something	an election/campaign rally	I am prepared to take part in a rally against this decision and join other concerned readers of your newspaper on the steps of the Town Hall to show full support for retaining the local hospital to serve our community.
evp	rally	noun	2	C2	a car or motorcycle race	a rally driver	Indeed, it didn't look at all like the vehicles that we see on TV during the Paris-Dakkar rally.
evp	random	adjective	1	C1	happening, done or chosen by chance rather than according to a plan	random checks/tests/attacks	I will put my remarks in random order.
evp	random	adjective	2	C1	chosen by chance	Winners will be chosen at random.	The rooms suggested to be filmed have not been chosen at random.
evp	randomly	adverb	1	C1	in a random way	The books were randomly arranged on the shelves.	It is based on the survey of the Language Institute's students, who were randomly selected.
evp	range	noun	1	B1	a group of different things of the same general type	a range of colors/patterns	It's a beautiful place with a wide range of activities.
evp	range	noun	2	B1	a group of mountains or hills	A range of mountains runs through the middle of Puerto Rico.	My friend's farm is near to the lovely mountain range, and there are beautiful countryside views as well.
evp	range	noun	3	B2	the amounts or numbers between a particular set of limits	That's too expensive - it's out of our price range.	The age range of the club is from eighteen to thirty years old and our club has different nationalities.
evp	range	verb	1	B2	to have an upper and a lower limit in amount, number, etc.	Dress sizes range from petite to extra large.	It offers lots of fabulous things ranging from drinks to modern music.
evp	rank	noun	1	C1	a position in an organization, such as the army, showing someone's importance	senior/high/junior/low rank	Women were denied a higher rank and their job was limited to mundane tasks.
evp	rank	verb	1	C1	to have a position in a list which shows things or people in order of importance, or to give someone or something a position on such a list	He ranked number one in the world at the start of the competition.	From being in an amateur league to ranked top 3 in the world is a considerable achievement.
evp	rap	noun	1	A2	a type of music in which the words are spoken and there is a strong beat	a rap artist	I like hip-hop, rap, reggae and punk-rock.
evp	rape	verb	1	B2	to force someone to have sex when they do not want to	She was pulled from the car and raped.	I thought that they wanted to rape me.
evp	rape	noun	1	B2	the crime of forcing someone to have sex when they do not want to	He had committed several rapes.	Last month the police caught a man for rape and he confessed to several other crimes.
evp	rapid	adjective	1	B2	fast or sudden	The 1990s were a period of rapid change/growth.	With the rapid development of technology, shopping on the Internet is becoming very popular.
evp	rapidly	adverb	1	B2	quickly or suddenly	Prices have increased rapidly in the last few months.	
evp	rare	adjective	1	B1	very unusual	a rare disease/species	There are palms, rare birds, very good food and a wonderful beach.
evp	rare	adjective	2	C1	If meat is rare, it is still red because it has only been cooked for a short time.	a rare steak	
evp	rarely	adverb	1	B1	not often	We rarely see each other now.	I rarely go shopping for clothes.
evp	rash	noun	1	C2	a group of small, red spots on the skin	an itchy rash	Indeed, everything had worked out very well since I had woken up, not only for the little things such as having your breakfast without spilling your tea on your new suit but also for more serious matters like getting up with a dreadful face or a rash of spots!
evp	rash	adjective	1	C2	done suddenly and without thinking carefully	a rash decision/promise	They had reconciled only some days ago and had made a rash decision to go on holiday with us.
evp	rat	noun	1	A2	an animal that looks like a large mouse and has a long tail	Rats carry disease.	Last night a rat tasted my feet, so now I'm looking for a poison for rats.
evp	rate	noun	1	B2	how often something happens, or how many people something happens to	the rate of unemployment	The topics we have in mind are - why people commit a crime, why the crime rate has risen in Britain, and of course some discussion about your latest novel.
evp	rate	noun	2	B2	a fixed amount of money given for something	the interest rate	I think it would be a good thing to help the restaurant by either giving them a subsidy or lending them money at a low rate.
evp	rate	noun	3	C1	the speed at which something happens	the patient's heart rate	The actual rate of our company's growth demands increasing quality and productivity.
evp	rate	noun	4	C1	very good, bad, or very bad	a first-rate hotel	For example, our town is famous for its first-rate tennis team, so he could continue his training in tennis here and also do other sports like volleyball and baseketball.
evp	rate	noun	5	C2	used before saying what will happen if a situation continues in the same way	At this rate we're not going to be there till midnight.	
evp	rate	noun	6	C2	used before saying one fact that is certain in a situation that you are generally not certain about	Well, at any rate we need her to be there.	Nevertheless, at any rate, we would like to see a society with a full and strong workforce working towards stronger economic power.
evp	rate	verb	1	C1	to judge the quality or ability of someone or something	How do you rate her as a singer?	We did a survey among our members that rated value for money, cost, staff, and the like.
evp	rather	adverb	1	B1	slightly or to a small degree	That's rather a difficult question to answer.	I can't come because I feel rather sick.
evp	rather	adverb	2	B1	instead of	I think I'd like coffee rather than tea, if that's okay?	When the weather is too hot to wear jeans, I usually wear a swimsuit rather than shorts.
evp	rather	adverb	3	B1	used to show that you prefer to have or do one thing more than another	I'd much rather go out to dinner than stay in and watch TV.	I'd rather watch something funny, like a sitcom.
evp	rather	adverb	4	B2	used to change something you have just said and make it more correct	She'll go shopping on Thursday, or rather, she will if she has to.	The food - or rather, leftovers - that she gave him was barely enough to feed a baby.
evp	rating	noun	1	C1	a measurement of how good or popular something or someone is	A high percentage of Americans gave the President a positive rating.	Overall your rating was excellent!
evp	rating	noun	2	C2	a list of television and radio programmes showing how popular they are	His show did well in the ratings.	Sports would not appear on TV if it was not for a majority of the population wanting to watch it, in fact some sports programmes have the highest ratings of all TV shows.
evp	ratio	noun	1	C1	the relationship between two groups or amounts, which expresses how much bigger one is than the other	The ratio of men to women at the conference was ten to one/10:1.	First, the ratio between cost and the perceived value has become better since 2004, i.e., the guests are more satisfied now and believe that your service is worth the money.
evp	rational	adjective	1	C1	showing clear thought and reason	He was too upset to be rational.	Be as rational as you can and you will pass your driving test the first time.
evp	raw	adjective	1	B1	not cooked	raw fish/meat/vegetables	My grandparents often tell me that they've never eaten anything while walking and they love healthy food, especially raw fish and sushi.
evp	raw	adjective	2	B2	in the natural state	raw sugar	Finally, I think the designers will make use of the raw materials and create an innovative look for all of us.
evp	ray	noun	1	B2	a narrow beam of light, heat, or energy traveling in a straight line from its place of origin	A ray of sunshine shone through a gap in the clouds.	She just couldn't see any way of finding her camping equipment in the basement, where there was not even a single ray of light to guide her.
evp	razor	noun	1	B2	a piece of equipment with a sharp blade used for removing hair from the face, legs, etc.	Did you pack a razor?	Oh yes, she could vividly remember the last time he hurt her, only then it was with a razor.
evp	reach	verb	1	B1	to arrive at a place, especially after spending a long time traveling	We won't reach home till five or six o'clock.	In the evening, it got colder than it had been] so we reached home shivering.
evp	reach	verb	2	B2	to make a decision/agreement/conclusion, etc. about something	She reached the conclusion that there was no more she could do.	After having thought about this video, I reached the following conclusions: we must film the lessons which are the most important and the activities which take a great part of the day at school.
evp	reach	verb	3	B2	to get to a particular level, situation, etc.	The temperature is expected to reach 30 degrees today.	My dad has already reached the age of 60.
evp	reach	verb	4	B2	to stretch out your arm in order to get or touch something	Our little girl isn’t tall enough to reach the light switches.	So when I reached out my hand, I suddenly felt another hand.
evp	reach	verb	5	B2	to be able to touch or take something with your hand	Could you get that book down for me - I can't reach.	Then I looked around my car and saw my handbag. I could hardly reach it but after some effort I got it.
evp	reach	verb	6	B2	to speak to someone on the telephone	You can reach him at home.	I have been trying to reach him the whole day but I didn't get any answer.
evp	reach	noun	1	B2	the distance that can be traveled, especially easily	We live within(easy) reach of the station.	Our city, Sardab, is located just two kilometers from the Caspian Sea, and it is within easy reach of the capital of our province.
evp	reach	noun	2	B2	Someone's reach is the distance within which they can stretch out their arm and touch something.	I like to keep a notebook and pencil within reach.	
evp	react	verb	1	B2	to say, do, or feel something because of something else that has been said or done	He reacted angrily to her comments.	I reacted quickly and without panic.
evp	reaction	noun	1	B2	something you say, feel, or do because of something that has happened	What was his reaction to the news?	Her reaction made it all worthwhile. She burst into tears and thanked us. That was an experience that I'll never forget.
evp	reaction	noun	2	B2	an unpleasant effect resulting from eating particular things or taking particular drugs	A number of people have had a bad reaction to this medication.	There is one more thing that you have to note: two girls have an allergic reaction to nuts, so please make sure that our lunch is nut-free!
evp	read	verb	1	A1	to look at words and understand what they mean	I've read three books this month.	We read books and we use computers.
evp	read	verb	2	A2	to look at words that are written and say them aloud for other people to listen to	Do you want me to read the directions to you?	Can you imagine anything more beautiful than a mother reading a bedtime story to her little baby?
evp	read	verb	3	C2	If you read between the lines, you understand what something really means when it hasn't been directly said or written.	Reading between the lines, it was obvious that something was wrong.	All songs send positive thoughts and messages to listeners, although sometimes you really have to read between the lines to understand this profound message.
evp	read	verb	4	B2	to read something and say the words aloud so that other people can hear	He read out the names of all the winners.	Michael sat in his favorite chair while his wife read out what had happened.
evp	read	verb	5	B2	to read something from the beginning to the end, especially to find mistakes	I read over my essay to check for errors.	I thought my eyes were deceiving me so I read the letter over again.
evp	reader	noun	1	B1	someone who reads	He's a great reader.	It is a club of readers. Our motto is "READ AND YOU WILL FEEL FINE!"
evp	reader	noun	2	B1	a book containing a simple story for people who are learning to read or learning a language	There are readers at five different levels, from beginner to upper intermediate.	
evp	readership	noun	1	C1	the number and type of people who read a particular newspaper, magazine, etc	These magazines have a very young readership.	The first one is an issue that has become one of the main subjects of the last ten years and affects the whole world, so it will interest your readership.
evp	readily	adverb	1	B2	quickly and easily	Information is readily available on the Internet.	
evp	readily	adverb	2	B2	willingly and without stopping to think	He readily admits to having problems himself.	Drinking alcohol won't do you any good. There are a lot of friends who would readily help you if you decided to give it up.
evp	readiness	noun	1	C1	when someone is willing to do something	They expressed a readiness to accept our demands.	Usually, the clients appreciate his readiness to use their language and this has often been a significant factor in closing a deal.
evp	readiness	noun	2	C2	when someone is prepared for something	It was time to repair their shelters in readiness for the winter.	
evp	reading	noun	1	A1	the activity or skill of getting information from books, newspapers, etc.	I did a lot of reading while I was on vacation.	Also we do some practice tasks on writing, reading, speaking and spelling.
evp	readjust	verb	1	C1	to move something slightly or make a small change to something	He readjusted his tie.	Because the air conditioning was not working properly or because your unfriendly coach driver refused to readjust it, I got a]col from that day.
evp	readjust	verb	2	C2	to change in order to deal with a new situation, such as a new job or home	The children will have to readjust to a new school.	For the last couple of days she had gradually readjusted to her normal mode of life, no longer suddenly finding herself attuned to Morgan's odd modality of perceptions and unable to interface properly with her surroundings.
evp	ready	adjective	1	A1	prepared for doing something	Give me a call when you're ready.	Are you ready for some painting?
evp	ready	adjective	2	A2	prepared and available to be eaten, drunk, used, etc.	Is dinner ready?	The meal will be ready at 6 o'clock.
evp	real	adjective	1	A2	existing in fact and not imagined	He's not real you know, he's just a character in a book.	I have recently seen a program called "Real life". The program is very good because you can see what the real world is like]
evp	real	adjective	2	A2	not artificial or false	real leather	They brought a car for me but not a real one]
evp	real	adjective	3	B1	true and not pretended	What's the real reason she didn't come?	That is the real reason why I'm going to stay in England longer.
evp	real	adjective	4	B2	being the most important or the main thing	The real problem, of course, is money.	Nowadays people work most of the time with their computers, and the internet gives them the opportunity to download whatever they want, even books, but the real problem is that they do not have the time to read them.
evp	real	adjective	5	B2	used to emphasize a noun	She was a real help.	In the advertisement it says "your perfect evening out", but it was a real disappointment.
evp	real	adjective	6	B2	taken seriously, not pretended	I thought it was just a practice, but apparently it was for real.	I thought it was a joke but when I saw the signature I knew it was for real.
evp	realistic	adjective	1	B1	showing things and people as they really are, or making them seem to be real	The creatures were all computer-generated but so realistic.	I chose this film because I think it is very realistic.
evp	realistic	adjective	2	B2	accepting the true facts of a situation and not basing decisions on things that will not happen	Let's be realistic - we're not going to finish this by Friday.	Dear friends, I think that your ideas are very nice, but we have to be realistic.
evp	realistically	adverb	1	C1	in a way that shows things and people as they really are, or that makes them seem real	The characters are portrayed very realistically.	It was realistically captured in the TV reports you have seen.
evp	realistically	adverb	2	C2	in a way that shows that you accept the true facts of a situation	Realistically, we cannot expect to have finished by the weekend.	Realistically, separate schools will probably be with us for a long time to come, but it will remain the least used form of the two.
evp	reality	noun	1	B2	the way things or situations really are and not the way you would like them to be	Listening to music is my escape from reality.	Finally, your report talks about an audience of less than 2,000 although we were in reality more than 5,000.
evp	reality	noun	2	B2	the truth about an unpleasant situation	the harsh realities of life	Besides we all know the realities of the modern world.
evp	reality	noun	3	B2	to start to happen or exist	New jobs could become a reality by next month.	You have made my dream become a reality.
evp	realization	noun	1	C1	when you notice or understand something that you did not notice or understand before	There is a growing realization that education has benefits at many levels.	I suppose it is only when one starts to think about it that the realization comes about the fact that fashion is part of our everyday life.
evp	realization	noun	2	C2	when you achieve something that you wanted	the realization of an ambition	I am certain that the realization of such a project would not only be of benefit to me, but also contribute to an enhanced cultural understanding of both the host country and Switzerland.
evp	realize	verb	1	B1	to notice or understand something that you did not notice or understand before	I didn't realize how unhappy she was.	I was on my way to the airport when I realized I wasn't carrying my suitcase.
evp	really	adverb	1	A1	very or very much	She's really friendly/nice.	I really like my lessons, the teacher and my new friends.
evp	really	adverb	2	A2	used to give particular importance to a verb, especially a modal verb	I really have to call Ursula this week.	I really need to study.
evp	really	adverb	3	B1	used when you are saying what is the truth of a situation	He isn't really angry - he's just pretending.	The first lesson was about the present tense and wasn't really difficult for us.
evp	really	adverb	4	B1	used for replying that something is not true in a way that is less strong than saying "no"	"So was the food good?" "Not really."	
evp	realm	noun	1	C2	an area of knowledge, interest, experience or activity	successes in the realm of  foreign policy	Reading literature, in particular, as a pastime is the path which leads you to the magic realm of other worlds shaped by a magnificent combination of words, phrases and sentences composing anew and in a totally different way what you experience in your everyday life.
evp	rear	adjective	1	B2	at the back of something	There's a sticker on the rear door/window.	In his rear mirror he saw that all the lights on the airfield were on again.
evp	rear	noun	1	C1	the back part of something	First class accommodation is towards the rear of the train.	The damage seems to be at the rear of the fridge where the motor is situated.
evp	rear	verb	1	C1	If you rear children or young animals, you care for them until they are adults.	In these waters they breed and rear their young.	But still the main role of the woman is to rear her children and be a good assistant to her husband and take care of her home.
evp	rearrange	verb	1	B2	to change the order or position of things	I've rearranged the furniture in my office.	Maybe you could rearrange the café to be more classical.
evp	reason	noun	1	A2	the facts about why something happens or why someone does something	The reason I'm calling is to ask you a favor.	I think the reason why I like mirrors is I like to look at myself.
evp	reason	noun	2	B2	something that makes it right for you to think or do something	I think we have reason to be concerned.	Animals in zoos are in captivity and not in their natural habitat. They live captured there for no reason, as we could learn about them from books or documentaries instead]
evp	reason	noun	3	C2	If it stands to reason that something happens or is true, it is what you would expect.	It stands to reason that a child who is constantly criticized will have little self-confidence.	So it stands to reason that there is no place for Piggy in Jack's world.
evp	reasonable	adjective	1	B1	somewhat cheap	reasonable prices	If you are nature lovers, you should visit some small villages where you can find a peaceful atmosphere, delicious, fresh food and everything at a reasonable price.
evp	reasonable	adjective	2	B1	big enough or large enough in number or amount, although not big or not many	There were a reasonable number of people there.	Some of them have good places for sightseeing and a reasonable amount of nightlife.
evp	reasonable	adjective	3	B1	good enough but not the best	The service at the hotel is reasonable but don't expect 5-star treatment.	From my Certificates you can see that I speak English very well and that I have a reasonable knowledge of Italian and Spanish.
evp	reasonable	adjective	4	B2	fair and showing good judgment	It's not reasonable to expect people to work such long hours.	In my opinion, reasonable rules are important for us but being too strict will bring stress, which causes kids to be afraid of many things.
evp	reasonable	adjective	5	B2	based on facts that can be explained	There will be a reasonable explanation for all of this.	I hope you will be able to offer me a reasonable explanation for these mistakes and report correct information in your newspaper.
evp	reasoning	noun	1	C2	the process of thinking about something in order to make a decision	I don't understand the reasoning behind this decision.	According to this line of reasoning, its supporters believe that although sports people sacrifice a lot of their time, the huge amounts of money that they earn are illogical in comparison with the job they are doing.
evp	reassurance	noun	1	C2	something that you say to make someone stop worrying	Despite my reassurances that she was welcome, she wouldn't come.	I very much like being around people and need the reassurance of being well liked.
evp	reassure	verb	1	C1	to say something to stop someone from worrying	He reassured me that I would be paid soon.	Making my own decisions gives me much stress because I am always so scared of the results and I need to be reassured that I am doing the right thing all the time.
evp	reassuring	adjective	1	C1	making you feel less worried	a reassuring smile/voice	It was a reassuring feeling.
evp	rebel	noun	1	B2	someone who fights against the government in their country, especially a soldier	The rebels took over the capital and set up a new government.	Suddenly, the police came o]nt the train] and killed all the rebels.
evp	rebel	verb	1	B2	to refuse to obey rules that you disagree with or do not like	Children often rebel against eating certain foods - Rory won't eat vegetables.	His brother was never kind with her and she always wanted to rebel.
evp	rebellion	noun	1	C1	when people fight against the government in their country	Government troops defeated an armed rebellion in the south.	The rebellion of the students not only led to the freedom of Greece but it also inspired the local people and the people worldwide to fight for their freedom.
evp	rebellious	adjective	1	C1	refusing to obey rules because you do not like authority	a rebellious teenager	"It was impossible for me to become submissive - I must have been rebellious from my very birth", she recalls.
evp	rebuild	verb	1	B1	to build something again that has been damaged or destroyed	The villa was completely rebuilt in 1425 after it had been destroyed by fire.	It's a XIX century construction, but they rebuilt it.
evp	rebuild	verb	2	B2	to make a situation succeed again after something caused it to fail	The country was still struggling to rebuild its economy.	Since more and more people in our modern society have been living in a highly urbanized environment and they are isolated from the rest of nature, I think it is vital to make every effort to rebuild healthy relationships with nature.
evp	recall	verb	1	B2	to remember something	I couldn't recall our instructor's name.	Right now, I can't recall much of that phone call.
evp	receipt	noun	1	A2	a piece of paper that proves that you have received goods or money	Could I have a receipt?	Fortunately I had kept the receipts and could show them to him.
evp	receipt	noun	2	B2	the act of receiving something	Items must be returned within fourteen days of receipt.	
evp	receive	verb	1	A2	to get something that someone has given or sent to you	Occasionally, he still receives letters from fans.	I also received many other presents.
evp	receive	verb	2	C1	to react to a suggestion or piece of work in a particular way	His first book was not well received.	The English lessons in the mornings were well received but I wonder if it is possible to get more variety?
evp	recent	adjective	1	B1	happening or starting from a short time ago	Is that a recent photo?	Dear John, Thank you for your recent letter.
evp	recently	adverb	1	B1	not long ago, or at a time that started not long ago	Have you seen any good films recently?	My grandparents, who recently moved to Spain, were sending me a plane ticket so that I could go there for a visit.
evp	reception	noun	1	B2	a formal party that is given to celebrate a special event or to welcome someone	a wedding reception	Next month, I have to fly to London to attend a friend's wedding reception.
evp	receptionist	noun	1	A2	someone who works in a hotel or office building, answering the telephone and dealing with guests	a hotel receptionist	If you can't find the information, you must ask the receptionist.
evp	receptive	adjective	1	C2	willing to think about and accept new ideas	She's generally very receptive to ideas and suggestions.	As we are very receptive to new ideas, this interaction will help us improve our city and take a step forward in making it a nicer place to live or visit.
evp	recession	noun	1	B2	a period when the economy of a country is not successful and conditions for business are bad	The latest report confirms that the economy is in recession.	Now in Japan the recession is getting worse and unemployment is increasing.
evp	recharge	verb	1	C1	to fill a battery with electricity so that it can work again	You can recharge these batteries.	After buying your mobile phone, it is important to know that it can't be used for an unlimited time. It will have to be recharged and, in the end, it will let you down when most needed.
evp	recharge	verb	2	C2	to have a period of rest and relaxation so that you feel energetic again	She took a trip to the south of France to recharge her batteries.	It is a very effective way in which we could rejuvenate ourselves and recharge our batteries in order to face the difficulties o] the daily routine.
evp	recipe	noun	1	B1	a list of foods and a set of instructions telling you how to cook something	Do you know a good recipe for a multigrain bread?	Actually I am going to bring with me some delicious recipes that you are going to be surprised by]
evp	reckless	adjective	1	C2	doing something dangerous and not caring about what might happen	reckless driving	And, not to mention all the litter they leave behind, they also damage valuable rock formations or cliff faces through reckless climbing attempts.
evp	recognition	noun	1	C2	when you accept that something is true or real	There is a growing recognition of the scale of the problem.	We easily become seduced by the false image of a perfect world of ads that makes us a part of it as long as we purchase more things with no sense of recognition between a real and a false need.
evp	recognition	noun	2	C2	when someone gets praise, respect or thanks for something good they have done	Ellen gained recognition for her outstanding work.	What they are after, is recognition in their work but not so much for the work itself, but for what comes after recognition, which is a rise in the salary!
evp	recognition	noun	3	C2	when you know something or someone because you have seen or experienced them before	I waved at her, but she showed no sign of recognition.	Everything had changed out of all recognition and bore no resemblance to the house he had entered a few minutes ago.
evp	recognize	verb	1	B1	to know someone or something because you have seen, heard or experienced them before	I hadn't seen her for 20 years, but I recognized her immediately.	I had recognized Andy's handwriting as soon as I had seen it.
evp	recognize	verb	2	B2	to accept that something is legal, true or important	She recognized that she had been partly to blame.	I recognize that, when the weather is bad, you sometimes get wet.
evp	recollect	verb	1	C2	to remember something	I didn't recollect having seen him.	I am able to recollect only one single family gathering I did not especially take to.
evp	recollection	noun	1	C2	when you remember something	He had no recollection of the incident.	I have a very vague recollection of my childhood but, of course, there are some things that have stayed in my memory.
evp	recommend	verb	1	B1	to say that someone or something is good or suitable for a particular purpose	Can you recommend a good hotel?	I recommend the city of Porto Alegre.
evp	recommend	verb	2	B2	to advise someone that something should be done	The committee recommended that we increase our fund-raising efforts.	I recommend that you apply to work at the festival and you will have a great time!
evp	recommendation	noun	1	B2	a piece of advice about what to do in a particular situation	The report doesn't make/offer any new recommendations.	I hope my recommendations are helpful, and I hope you have a great time!
evp	reconcile	verb	1	C2	to make two different ideas, beliefs, or situations agree or able to exist together	It is sometimes difficult to reconcile science and religion.	When this is the case, the families caring for them are faced with an uphill struggle, as it is difficult to reconcile the need for earning a living with the care of their relatives.
evp	reconcile	verb	2	C2	to accept a situation although you do not like it	Eventually he reconciled himself to living without her.	I couldn't reconcile myself to the thought that my sister had proved to be smarter than me once again.
evp	reconsider	verb	1	C1	to think again about a decision or opinion and decide if you want to change it	We've been asked to reconsider the proposal.	We invite your newspaper to reconsider its position, hoping that the council will think about our proposals.
evp	reconstruct	verb	1	C1	to build something again after it has been damaged or destroyed	They reconstructed the palace exactly as it had been.	Dear Sir, The student committee greatly appreciate your efforts to resolve our current problems, in particular improving and reconstructing our sports centre.
evp	reconstruct	verb	2	C2	to create a description of a past event using all the information that you have	The police tried to reconstruct the crime using evidence found at the scene.	Through some letters written by Olivia to her sister Marcia, who lived in Paris in 1923, Anne reconstructs the different episodes, letting the reader imagine all the different scenes.
evp	reconstruction	noun	1	C1	when you build something again after it has been damaged or destroyed	The reconstruction of the city took decades.	The classrooms are in need of immediate reconstruction.
evp	reconstruction	noun	2	C2	when you create a description of a past event using all the information that you have	A reconstruction of the crime was shown on TV.	
evp	record	verb	1	A2	to store sounds or pictures using electronic equipment, a camera, etc., so that you can listen to them or see them again	They've just recorded a new album.	The best thing about the phone is it has a camera and it can record anything.
evp	record	verb	2	B2	to write down information or store it on a computer so that it can be used in the future	He recorded details of their conversation in his diary.	Another way to highlight the importance of books is to consider them as the "depots" of wisdom and knowledge that exist and have been recorded since the beginning of History.
evp	record	noun	1	B1	a song or music which has been recorded and which is available for the public to buy	I like their new record.	My room is comfortable but a bit untidy around my stereo because in spite of having a lot of records and CDs, I don't have any shelf for them so this is why I'm going to buy a new shelf.
evp	record	noun	2	B1	the best, biggest, longest, tallest, etc.	He ran the 100 meters in 9.79 seconds and broke the world record.	For instance, at the moment we hear a lot about Laure Manaudou - she has won many gold medals in swimming, and any time she takes part in a competition, she tends to go faster than her previous personal time record or even faster than the world record!!
evp	record	noun	3	B2	information that is written on paper or stored on computer so that it can be used in the future	medical/dental records	Finally, I have to mention that according to the records from the box office, they sold over 5,000 tickets for this music festival.
evp	recording	noun	1	B1	a piece of music or a speech which has been recorded onto a disc, tape, etc.	I bought a recording of Maria Callas singing Verdi.	I've made some recordings for you to listen to.
evp	recording	noun	2	B2	the process or business of putting sounds, especially music, onto a disc, magnetic tape, etc., using electronic equipment	a recording studio	I loved to sing and I decided to visit all the recording companies.
evp	recover	verb	1	B1	to become healthy or happy again after an illness, injury, or period of sadness	It took a long time to recover after my knee surgery.	Dear Teacher, I'm sorry but I can't be at your next class because I'm recovering from an illness and my doctor said that I should stay home.
evp	recover	verb	2	B2	If a system or situation recovers, it returns to the way it was before something bad happened.	The economy recovered quickly after the election.	Lots of effort has been put in and finally our economy is recovering.
evp	recovery	noun	1	B2	when you feel better or happier again after an illness, injury, or period of sadness	She only had the operation last month but she's made a full recovery.	I was sorry to hear that you were ill, and my family and I send you our best wishes for a speedy recovery.
evp	recovery	noun	2	C1	when a system or situation returns to the way it was before something bad happened	economic recovery	We are still waiting for the recovery in our economy but the political transformation and economic reforms are very painful for our society.
evp	recovery	noun	3	C2	when you get back something that was lost or stolen	the recovery of stolen jewels	The diary had been lost for a long time but was now found in the attic of the house several years after the woman's death. It was dedicated to John. When John finished reading Lucy's secret diary he let willing tears flow. [...] The recovery of the lost diary had broken his heart.
evp	recreate	verb	1	C1	to make something exist or happen again	They plan to recreate a typical English village in Japan.	We want people whose skills with a laser high-accuracy enamel paint brush could only be surpassed by the skill of those men in our past who wielded the original weapons we are now recreating.
evp	recreation	noun	1	B2	activities that you do for enjoyment when you are not working	Emma's only form of recreation seems to be shopping.	[Is] there any gym or other recreation facilities available in the Magnet Hotel?
evp	recreational	adjective	1	C2	used for recreation	recreational activities/facilities	There are few schools in the countryside and only basic recreational facilities, whereas the cities possess many schools, fully staffed, universities and many opportunities for recreation of every kind.
evp	recruit	verb	1	C1	to try to persuade someone to work for a company or to join an organization		Secondly, the coach driver was quite a rude person and, as far as I am concerned, it would be a good idea to pay more attention when recruiting your staff.
evp	recruit	noun	1	C2	someone who has recently joined an organization	a new recruit	The CD-Rom will enable a self-training for new recruits with help of Compact Disks with usefull info.
evp	recruitment	noun	1	C1	the process of finding people to work for a company or become a new member of an organization	The recession has forced a lot of companies to cut down on staff recruitment.	This is mainly due to the recent recruitment of office personnel in our department.
evp	rectangle	noun	1	C1	a shape with four 90° angles and four sides, with opposite sides of equal length and two sides longer than the other two	The garden is in the shape of a rectangle.	
evp	rectangular	adjective	1	B2	shaped like a rectangle, with four sides and four 90° angles	a rectangular area of grass	The room is rectangular, 4 times 6 metres.
evp	rectify	verb	1	C1	to correct something or change it so that it is acceptable	The government has promised to rectify the situation.	I also hope as far as the article is concerned that you will kindly rectify the defamatory information revealed in the statement.
evp	recur	verb	1	C2	to happen again or many times	The same ideas recur throughout her books.	This feeling of feeling trapped recurs often throughout the novel as a way to emphasize the feeling of isolation.
evp	recycle	verb	1	B1	to collect used paper, glass, plastic, etc., and put if through a process so that it can be used again	We recycle all our newspapers and bottles.	The project is about collecting cans to recycle.
evp	recycled	adjective	1	B1	Recycled paper, glass, plastic, etc. has been used before and put through a process so that it can be used again.	recycled paper/plastic	Using recycled glass and paper not only saves resources, but also a lot of energy.
evp	recycling	noun	1	B1	when paper, glass, plastic, etc., is put through a process so that it can be used again	ways to encourage recycling	To respect the environment they have to understand that recycling is the best and cheapest way to get a better environment without pollution.
evp	recycling	noun	2	B2	materials such as paper, glass, and plastic that you collect to be recycled	We put out our recycling for pickup on Tuesdays.	Do you ever try to save water and electricity? And do you put the rubbish and recycling things separately?
evp	red	adjective	1	A1	being the same color as blood	red lipstick	Op[p]osite the second bus stop is my house with a red door.
evp	red	adjective	2	A2	Red wine is made from black grapes.	We ordered a bottle of red wine.	You can bring red wine, if you want, because we will be eating beef.
evp	red	adjective	3	A2	describes hair which is an orange-brown color	Both children have red hair.	Cassie, that beautiful girl with red hair, will come to it.
evp	red	adjective	4	B2	If someone goes red, their face becomes red because they are embarrassed or angry.	He kissed her on the cheek and she went bright red.	When Paul saw the girl who had blond hair and bluish eyes, his face suddenly went red.
evp	red	noun	1	A2	the color of blood	She uses a lot of reds and pinks in her paintings.	Hey, Robbie... about that painting we're going to do i] my bedroom: I've decided to use red!
evp	redevelop	verb	1	C1	to make a place more modern by improving old buildings or building new ones	There are plans to redevelop the city's waterfront area.	Most of the coastal villages lose their traditional element - their value - and they become redeveloped in order to be in accord with the growing need to attract people.
evp	redevelopment	noun	1	C1	when a place is made more modern by improving old buildings or building new ones	There has been a lot of redevelopment in this area.	I would like to invite other people to support this proposal and to try to explain to the opposition how nice our city centre would be after the proposed redevelopment.
evp	redistribute	verb	1	C2	to share money, land, power, etc. between people in a different way from before	to redistribute wealth	The challenge our governments face now is how to redistribute wealth and how to provide the opportunity for all to exercise their right to work.
evp	reduce	verb	1	B1	to make something less	to reduce air pollution	It is a bit small, but the price was reduced.
evp	reduce	verb	2	C2	to make someone unhappy or cause them to be in a bad situation	She was reduced to tears by his comments.	She was also very hard with stubborn witnesses, reducing them to tears, or pumping them dry of information where necessary.
evp	reduce	verb	3	C2	to destroy something, especially something that has been built	The earthquake reduced the city to rubble.	
evp	reduction	noun	1	B2	when something is reduced	a reduction in traffic	As for the prices, they are reasonable and you can have a reduction if your group is over 16 people.
evp	referee	noun	1	B2	a person who is in charge of a sports game and who makes certain that the rules are followed	I think the referee made the wrong decision.	Due to my back injury, I could not train and play with my team, so it would be a good idea to be a referee.
evp	referendum	noun	1	C2	an occasion when all the people in a country can vote in order to show their opinion about a political question	The government has promised a referendum on voting reform.	Everybody was speaking about the referendum.
evp	refine	verb	1	C2	to improve an idea, method, system, etc. by making small changes	The engineers spent months refining the software.	Zucchero Fornaciari was discovered ten years ago in a national show and during this period of time has sharpened and refined his music.
evp	refined	adjective	1	C2	very polite and showing knowledge of social rules	She's very refined.	Not only is Lord Trimingham a noble and refined representative of Edwardian aristocracy, but also he is kind towards Leo.
evp	refined	adjective	2	C2	improved by many small changes	a refined method	Ever more refined technological devices like robots for example have led to the bizarre situation that you can walk through a production hall while work is in progress without seeing any human workers at all.
evp	reflect	verb	1	B2	If a surface such as a mirror or water reflects something, you can see the image of that thing in the mirror, water, etc.	He saw himself reflected in the window.	We could see a little from the light coming from the moon that was reflected in a mirror.
evp	reflect	verb	2	B2	to show or be a sign of something	The statistics reflect a change in people's spending habits.	Your description of the people, their everyday life, their characters and their friendliness reflects that you really had an excellent time here.
evp	reflect	verb	3	B2	to think in a serious and careful way	When she retired, she felt she needed time to reflect on what she would do next.	Then I reflected on his words: he had just said that he loved me.
evp	reflection	noun	1	B2	the image of something in a mirror, on a shiny surface, etc.	I saw my reflection in the window.	Have you seen your reflection in a mirror?
evp	reflection	noun	2	C1	something that is a sign or result of a particular situation	The fact that soldiers are on the streets is a reflection of how terrified the government is.	Is it really a reflection of the way we live?
evp	reflection	noun	3	C2	when you think in a serious and careful way	He paused for reflection before answering my question.	Only now, on reflection, do I realize what care, love and thoughtfulness my parents lavished on me.
evp	reform	noun	1	C2	when changes are made to improve a system, organization, or law, or a change that is made	economic/political reform	To sum up, it is obvious that a reform in the educational system is necessary and that the beliefs of what is or is not useful to learn must be reconsidered.
evp	reform	verb	1	C2	to change a system, organization, or law in order to improve it	efforts to reform the education system	Dag Hammarskjold made the work of the U N more efficient by reforming its structure.
evp	refrain	verb	1	C2	to stop yourself from doing something	Please refrain from talking during the performance.	I believe that people who have civil and graceful manners and who refrain from being too assertive end up being more successful and powerful than those who try to exert authority at any given moment.
evp	refresh	verb	1	C1	to make you feel less hot or tired	A cool drink should refresh you.	The bar is open from 7 a.m. to 11 p.m. When you are in my house, refresh yourself, help yourself from the fridge, feel at your ease, and then call me by phone.
evp	refresh	verb	2	C1	to make something more up-to-date or to make it look newer or more attractive	Old furniture can be refreshed with a coat of paint.	The magazine is totally up-to-date with extreme question papers in which the reader has the opportunity to test or refresh his/her knowledge.
evp	refreshing	adjective	1	C1	different and interesting	a refreshing change	Once you master the language quite well, listening to a news broadcast is a refreshing challenge that may require some serious concentration on your behalf.
evp	refreshing	adjective	2	C1	making you feel less hot or tired	a refreshing shower/swim	Last summer, I got a chance to visit there, and my breath was taken away by its soft sand, refreshing breeze, flocks of seagulls and poetic sunsets.
evp	refreshments	noun	1	B1	food and drinks that are available at a meeting, event, on a trip, etc.	Refreshments are available in the lobby.	During the show, we had some refreshments and popcorn.
evp	refrigerator	noun	1	A1	a large container that uses electricity to keep food cold	Put the eggs and butter in the refrigerator as soon as you get home.	I think I left my cell phone in the kitchen when I fell on the slippery floor. Search near the refrigerator, that's where it must be.
evp	refuge	noun	1	C2	protection from danger or unpleasant conditions	We took refuge from the storm in an old barn.	From the very moment when people from GDR started to take refuge in the BRD's embassy in Prague, my friend and I grew more and more excited.
evp	refugee	noun	1	B2	someone who has been forced to leave their country, especially because of a war	a refugee camp	Harry asked Martins to come to Vienna to write an article about the refugees there.
evp	refund	noun	1	B1	an amount of money that is given back to you, especially because you are not happy with something you have bought	The airline was responsible for the cancellation and we expect to get/receive a full refund.	I am expecting a full refund and compensation for the discomfort I have suffered.
evp	refusal	noun	1	C1	when someone refuses to do or accept something	Her refusal to cooperate didn't help her case.	The refusal of students to use the college canteen led to a demonstration that was held at the main entrance.
evp	refuse	verb	1	B1	to say that you will not do or accept something	Cathy refuses to walk instead of riding her bike to school.	My grandmother needs someone to take her to have an exam at the hospital. As I am the only person who is available to do that, I couldn't refuse.
evp	regain	verb	1	B2	to get something back again	The party has regained control of Congress.	He regained his health in a month, and helped police to capture the loan gang.
evp	regard	verb	1	B2	to think of someone or something in a particular way	She is generally regarded as one of the greatest singers this century.	Certainly, riding a bicycle is regarded as a healthy way of traveling and I do agree with it.
evp	regard	noun	1	B1	greetings	Best regards	I hope this information helps you to make your decision. Best regards,
evp	regard	noun	2	B2	relating to something	I am writing in regard to your letter of June 24th.	I am writing to you with regard to the International Arts Festival that was held recently.
evp	regime	noun	1	C2	a system of government or other control, especially one that people do not approve of	the former Communist regime	To my mind this film is highly recommendable to Germans who want to learn more about their history and to everybody who wants to learn about the consequences of a totalitarian political regime.
evp	region	noun	1	B1	a particular area in a country or the world	the semi-desert regions of Australia	The Northeast region is famous for its white sandy beaches which are fringed with coconut trees.
evp	region	noun	2	C1	approximately	It probably cost somewhere in the region of £900.	I am willing to pay rent in the region of £1000 to £1200 monthly.
evp	regional	adjective	1	B2	relating to a particular area in a country or the world	a regional accent/dialect	Among these events, you'll be able to visit the annual regional food festival, in which you'll enjoy some delicious meals and stupendous cakes.
evp	register	verb	1	B1	to put information about someone or something, especially a name, on an official list	Please register with the conference organizers when you arrive.	I registered for a "green card" six months ago.
evp	registration	noun	1	B1	when a name or information is recorded on an official list	voter registration	We had to pay some money for the registration in the first lesson.
evp	regret	verb	1	B1	to feel sorry about a situation, especially something that you wish you had not done	He regretted his decision to leave school.	I'm glad to receive your letter and know about your intention to come to Brazil. I think you've made a nice choice and you won't regret it.
evp	regret	verb	2	B2	used to say that you are sorry that you have to tell someone about a situation	We regret to inform you that the application has been refused.	Dear editor, I regret to inform you about some untrue information which was given in the last issue of your magazine.
evp	regret	noun	1	B2	a feeling of sadness about a situation, often something that you wish you had not done	I quit school at 18, but I've had a great life and I have no regrets.	Anyway, it was too late for regrets.
evp	regular	adjective	1	A2	usual or ordinary	I couldn't see my regular dentist.	You can use a regular t-shirt and shorts.
evp	regular	adjective	2	B1	happening or doing something often, especially at the same time every week, year, etc.	a regular customer	His girlfriend is a regular member of that new club which I have joined.
evp	regular	adjective	3	B1	following the usual rules or patterns in grammar	"Talk" is a regular verb but "go" is not.	
evp	regular	adjective	4	B1	being a standard size	a burger and regular fries	
evp	regular	adjective	5	B2	repeated with the same amount of time or space between one and the next	I suggested that we meet on a regular basis.	I'm willing to take care of your telescopes and to carry out a service on them at regular intervals so that they will work perfectly for many years.
evp	regularly	adverb	1	B1	often	Accidents regularly occur on this curve in the road.	But I regularly watch the news.
evp	regularly	adverb	2	B1	at the same time each day, week, month, etc.	They meet regularly - usually once a week.	I usually go out with my friends to buy a lot of clothes, regularly on weekends.
evp	regulate	verb	1	C1	to control an activity or process, especially by using rules	laws regulating advertising	I think in the near future we will find a way to regulate and control the internet and prevent criminals from using it.
evp	regulate	verb	2	C1	to control the speed, temperature, etc. of something	Babies find it difficult to regulate their body temperature.	I expressed a wish to the driver to regulate the temperature, but he was extremely rude to me as well as to other passengers.
evp	regulation	noun	1	B2	an official rule that controls how something is done	building/safety/traffic regulations	I would like the government to impose strict rules and regulations on capturing animals.
evp	regulation	noun	2	C1	when a process or activity is controlled	government regulation of interest rates	Proper regulation of program contents, monitoring children's time watching television and using television as a media to promote other leisure activities are factors which could reduce but at the same time make more efficient the time spent in front of the television.
evp	rehearsal	noun	1	B2	a time when all the people involved in a play, dance, etc. practise in order to prepare for a performance	We only had one rehearsal before the show.	I helped to organise the rehearsals of the different groups who were going to play in the concert.
evp	rehearse	verb	1	C1	to practise a play, dance, etc. in order to prepare for a performance	We usually rehearse on Wednesdays.	I can't count how many nights I spent studying and studying for difficult exams, rehearsing for presentations and so on.
evp	reign	noun	1	C1	a period of time when a king or queen rules a country	the reign of Henry VIII	If I had the incredible opportunity to travel back in time and place, I would probably choose to go to Egypt during the reign of the Pharaohs to gain an insight into how this magical place really was so long ago.
evp	reign	verb	1	C2	to be the king or queen of a country	Queen Victoria reigned for 64 years.	I would be most of my free time playing with them, making them feel I am their friend not the king who has to reign over his land and possessions.
evp	reign	verb	2	C2	to be the main feeling or quality in a situation	Chaos reigned as angry protesters hammered on the doors.	Terror reigned during our singing courses.
evp	reinforce	verb	1	C1	to make an existing opinion, feeling or idea stronger	His behaviour merely reinforced my dislike of him.	The first unfavourable impression was reinforced the moment we arrived at the hotel.
evp	reinforce	verb	2	C2	to make something stronger	a security door reinforced by/with steel bars	If it is not possible, could not we get some money to be able to protect ourselves better against this unbearable noise, by reinforcing our windows.
evp	reject	verb	1	B2	to refuse to accept or agree with something	The committee rejected the proposal.	[S]he rejected the proposal for a long, long time, but she finally married the Crown Prince 6 years ago.
evp	reject	verb	2	B2	to refuse to accept someone for a job, a place at a school or in a course, etc.	She applied to Princeton University but was rejected.	
evp	reject	verb	3	B2	to not give someone the love or attention they were expecting	These students felt rejected by their teachers.	"So you're Michael, the mis-understood artist, rejected by his family and friends," the man growled.
evp	rejection	noun	1	C2	when you refuse to accept or agree with something	Their rejection of the peace plan is very disappointing for the government.	As a consequence, unemployment can lead to rejection of social and economic order and cause strikes, demonstrations and other forms of social dissatisfaction.
evp	rejection	noun	2	C2	a letter that says you have not been successful in getting a job, a place at college, etc	I've sent off ten applications but I've only had rejections so far.	
evp	rejection	noun	3	C2	when someone does not get the love, attention or success they were expecting	a feeling of rejection	One would say she was a true Rapunzel, and oh, how he wanted to climb up to her; but fear of rejection made him completely motionless.
evp	relate	verb	1	C2	to be connected, or to find or show the connection between two or more things	How do the two proposals relate?	They relate in no way to what an actor contributes to a project.
evp	relate	verb	2	C2	to tell a story or describe a series of events	He related the story of their journey.	It relates the story of Clément Mathieu, who is a supply teacher.
evp	relate	verb	3	C1	to be connected to, or to be about someone or something	Please provide all information relating to the claim.	And, finally, relating to your concern about the costs of the changes, we think that opening the Centre to the public would surely provide the required funds without having to impose a fee on the students, which would probably result in a radical decrease of their use of the facilities.
evp	relate	verb	4	C1	to understand how someone feels	Most teenagers find it hard to relate to their parents.	A soap opera should always be dramatic and not produced too "polished" or "clean" because then people would see it more as a movie, and people never relate as much to a character in a movie as they do to a character played by a good, down-to-earth actor who is apparently struggling as much as everybody else]
evp	related	adjective	1	B2	If people are related, they belong to the same family.	Of course Elise and Linda are related to each other – they’re cousins.	Although they're related to each other, they have rather different characters.
evp	related	adjective	2	B2	connected	We discussed unemployment and related  issues.	It is also related to my research project.
evp	relation	noun	1	B1	someone who belongs to the same family as you	On our trip, we visited friends and relations on both sides of the family.	I began to play against my relations and friends but I soon found that I could beat them without any difficulty.
evp	relation	noun	2	B2	the way in which two people or groups of people feel and behave toward each other	Relations between the parties are strained and an end to negotiations isn't in sight.	The second film is "Alice" directed by the world's most respected man within the movie business - of course Woody Allen. Again the good old fellow is totally fascinated by people in general, human relations and reactions.
evp	relation	noun	3	B2	a connection between two or more things	There was little relation between the book and the movie.	Another drawback is the relation between space and time.
evp	relation	noun	4	B2	when compared with something	Salaries are low in relation to the cost of living.	I think television has several advantages but also disadvantages in relation to books.
evp	relation	noun	5	B2	about or relating to something	I'd like to ask you something in relation to what you said earlier.	In relation to last month's social program, the sightseeing tour of London was divine, although we didn't get to see the entire city.
evp	relationship	noun	1	B1	the way two people or groups feel about and behave toward each other	He has a very good relationship with his father.	Then we studied some phrasal verbs and I was supposed to read a text about feelings and relationships.
evp	relationship	noun	2	B1	a romantic friendship	Are you in a relationship at the moment?	He told me that he hopes that someday we could have a boyfriend-girlfriend relationship for real.
evp	relationship	noun	3	B2	the way in which two things are connected	the relationship between sunburn and skin cancer	The relationship between mind and body has been proved by scientists.
evp	relative	noun	1	B1	a member of your family	All of these people are my relatives.	After that there'll be a big party with all your relatives and friends.
evp	relative	adjective	1	C1	being judged or measured in comparison with something else	the relative prosperity of the West	In order to make myself clear, let me tell you that as an individual I consider myself a dreamer and in the transition from my late teens to my relative maturity I've considered the words of Hesse in his novel "Gertrude": "The difference between our youth and maturity is that in the first stage we are selfish in all our feelings and actions, while in maturity our top priority is everyone else but ourselves]...
evp	relative	adjective	2	C2	when compared to something else	The economy has been declining relative to other countries.	This seems true at first sight but when one takes into account the different sizes of population, it becomes clear that every country is more or less equally successful relative to its population.
evp	relax	verb	1	B1	to become happy and comfortable because nothing is worrying you, or to make someone do this	I find it difficult to relax.	If you want to relax, Buenos Aires is near a lot of beautiful beaches.
evp	relax	verb	2	C1	If a part of your body relaxes, it becomes less stiff, and if you relax it, you make it become less stiff.	Try these exercises to relax your neck muscles.	
evp	relaxation	noun	1	B1	the feeling of being relaxed	He plays the piano for relaxation.	In the countryside you can go walking and swimming in the blue sea. That's very good for relaxation.
evp	relaxed	adjective	1	B1	feeling happy and calm because nothing is worrying you	She looked relaxed and happy walking along with her two boys.	It makes me more relaxed.
evp	relaxed	adjective	2	B2	A relaxed situation or place is comfortable and informal.	There was a very relaxed atmosphere at the party.	I love this place because it has a relaxed atmosphere and all the staff are very friendly.
evp	relaxing	adjective	1	B1	making you feel relaxed	a relaxing bath	Yoga is a very relaxing activity but not boring at all!
evp	release	verb	1	B2	to allow a prisoner to be free	Six hostages were released shortly before noon.	It all began when I was released from jail, after a two year conviction for jewel theft.
evp	release	verb	2	B2	to make a record or film available for people to buy or see	The band's latest album will be released next week.	He has recently released a new CD on which he spent a lot of time and really made an effort.
evp	release	noun	1	B2	a musical recording which is made available for the public to buy	Her latest release is a country-western song that she wrote herself.	[This department store provides the latest cds and dvds, so you are always up to date and never miss new releases.
evp	relentless	adjective	1	C2	never stopping or getting any less extreme	relentless criticism	We have come to the end of a millenium of accelerating and relentless destruction of the environment.
evp	relentlessly	adverb	1	C2	in a way that never stops or never gets less extreme	They pestered her relentlessly to take them to the seaside.	After the killing of the two sensible members of the group, namely Piggy and Simon, Ralph is relentlessly pursued by Jack.
evp	relevance	noun	1	C1	the degree to which something is related or useful to what is happening or being talked about	This point has no relevance to the discussion.	One may agree with what has been said or not, but nobody can deny the relevance of the issue, as our future society depends on our present educational system.
evp	relevant	adjective	1	B2	related or useful to what is happening or being talked about	relevant information	I had studied psychology but I couldn't find a job relevant to my studies.
evp	reliability	noun	1	C1	how reliable something is	I can't vouch for the reliability of these figures.	Our customers appreciate in particular the reliability of our products and most of them are prepared to pay a premium price for a high-quality product.
evp	reliable	adjective	1	B1	able to be trusted or believed	a reliable car	I got a lot of prizes in school, so I consider myself a hardworking and reliable person.
evp	relief	noun	1	B2	the good feeling that you have when something unpleasant stops or does not happen	It'll be such a relief when these exams are over.	She heard an ambulance siren in the distance and with a sigh of relief, she lost consciousness.
evp	relief	noun	2	C2	when something stops hurting you	I'd been trying to sleep to find relief from the pain.	
evp	relief	noun	3	C2	money, food, or clothes that are given to people because they need help	an international relief operation	In our opinion it is not necessary to practise low-flying because you should take into account that we all live in peace time and the money would be better spent on health or relief agencies.
evp	relieve	verb	1	C2	to make pain or a bad feeling less severe	Breathing exercises can help to relieve stress.	Now science gets the blame for being able to do so much, but not enough to relieve the psychological pain.
evp	relieve	verb	2	C2	to take something away from someone	Let me relieve you of your luggage.	There is nothing they can do on the outside now and they are relieved of their responsibilities.
evp	relieved	adjective	1	B2	happy that something unpleasant has not happened or has ended	I'm just relieved that she's safe and well.	She actually felt extremely relieved.
evp	religion	noun	1	B1	the belief in a god or gods, or a particular system of belief in a god or gods	the Christian/Muslim/Buddhist religion	I think it's quite interesting for me, because I like the history of religion.
evp	religious	adjective	1	B2	relating to religion	a religious holiday	Last but not least, I think people need religious and spiritual support and the family has to be protected and preserved.
evp	religious	adjective	2	B2	having a strong belief in a religion	He's a very religious man.	If you are a religious person, you should get married in a church.
evp	relish	verb	1	C2	to enjoy something	I don't relish the thought of a twelve-hour flight.	But as we gradually grow up and turn into adults, the dependence lessens and we relish our freedom.
evp	relish	noun	1	C2	enjoyment	He had baked a cake which the children now ate with relish.	My expert knowledge of the latter subject was completely ignored, which left me with the former, the most dreaded of all subjects. This was discussed with relish and the operations were described in such vivid detail that I had to excuse myself and leave the room, because I started to feel faint.
evp	relish	noun	2	C2	a sauce that you put on food to give it more taste	I ate the burger with some relish.	There are trays of cut lettuce, leaf lettuce, cut tomato, diced tomato, all kinds of relishes, cheese with bacon spread, barbecue, or whatever you like.
evp	relocate	verb	1	C1	to move to another place	The company relocated to Tokyo.	Well, as you know I was looking for a new job and for that reason I had to relocate to London in November.
evp	reluctant	adjective	1	C1	not wanting to do something	Many victims of crime are reluctant to go to the police.	However, Spanish husbands are very reluctant to share the housework.
evp	reluctantly	adverb	1	C1	in a reluctant way	She reluctantly agreed to step down as managing director.	Reluctantly I am forced to mention that my interpreter's fee should be at least doubled.
evp	remaining	adjective	1	B2	continuing to exist when other things or people have gone or been dealt with	Use half the dough and keep the remaining half covered.	So I decided to do nothing for the remaining week. I stayed at the beach and spent time swimming, reading and relaxing.
evp	remains	noun	1	B2	pieces or parts of something that continue to exist when most of it has been used, destroyed, or taken away	The remains of lunch were still on the table.	Friedrich II finished the town wall around Altenburg. Its remains are a tourist attraction now.
evp	remark	verb	1	B2	to say something that shows your opinion or states a fact	He remarked that he'd be home late.	Besides, as Chris remarked, this route may be very difficult.
evp	remark	noun	1	B2	something that you say, showing your opinion about something or stating a fact	He made a remark about the new carpet.	The man was surprised at her remark and double-checked it reluctantly.
evp	remarkable	adjective	1	B2	very unusual or noticeable in a way that you admire	He is a truly remarkable man.	It is a remarkable piece of literature, which portrays deep feelings of love and hate, depicts strong and unique characters, and reveals eternal concerns with good and bad, life and death.
evp	remarkably	adverb	1	C1	in a way that makes you feel surprised	She has remarkably good skin for her age.	As for your flight attendants, who are always friendly and remarkably helpful, it would be excellent if they were able to speak other languages apart from English.
evp	remedy	noun	1	B2	something that makes you better when you are ill	a cold remedy	But it is debatable whether animals are held to widen our human understanding and to create new remedies to cure people from illnesses or if they are kept just to amuse people.
evp	remedy	noun	2	B2	something that solves a problem	The remedy for the traffic problem is to encourage people to use public transportation.	You should give your deputy more work, and have more free time, which I think is the best remedy in your case.
evp	remember	verb	1	A1	If you remember a fact or something from the past, you keep it in your mind, or bring it back into your mind.	I can't remember his name.	But do you remember? I am a vegetarian now.
evp	remember	verb	2	A2	to not forget to do something	Did you remember to call Linda?	Remember to write me a letter.
evp	remind	verb	1	B1	to make someone remember something, or remember to do something	Remind me to mail this package.	I am writing this e-mail to remind you about our meeting on Tuesday.
evp	remind	verb	2	B1	to be similar to, or make you think of, something or someone else	She reminds me of Elaine.	It's not an expensive scarf, but I like it because it reminds me of my sister; she gave me this scarf for my birthday some years ago.
evp	reminder	noun	1	C1	something that makes you remember something else	If he forgot to pay his rent, his landlady would send him a reminder.	"Time is precious" is not interpreted as "carpe diem", but rather as a constant reminder of all our duties, that should be done in as little time as possible to prove ourselves effective.
evp	remorse	noun	1	C2	the feeling that you are sorry for something bad that you have done	He has shown no remorse for his actions.	At first she thought someone wanted her to feel remorse for not being with her husband when he needed her.
evp	remote	adjective	1	B2	far away	It was a remote mountain village that had no electricity.	She grew up in a remote area in the North East of Thailand.
evp	remote control	noun	1	B1	a piece of equipment that is used to control something such as a television or toy from a distance	Have you seen the remote control anywhere?	TV - a powerful force that keeps us glued for endless hours every day, unable to press the "Off" button on the remote control.
evp	remove	verb	1	B1	to take something away	Club soda will remove that stain.	I want to make some changes in my room because I feel that I don't have enough space - maybe I will remove my desk, but I'm not sure yet.
evp	remove	verb	2	B2	to take something off	Liz removed her jacket and hung it on a chair.	After, I was drenched to the skin and I had to remove all my clothes before going in]t the restaurant, I let you imagine how ashamed I was when I went into the restaurant completely naked!
evp	render	verb	1	C1	to give someone a decision, opinion, help, etc	payment for services rendered	Finally, the students have only a 5% discount for the services rendered by the arts centre in contrast to the fact that we agreed initially that a 10% discount would be more adequate.
evp	render	verb	2	C2	to cause something or someone to be in a particular state or condition	The trees rendered the road as dark as a tunnel.	Inadequate medical care coupled with inevitable worsening of constitution, which is a usual concomitant of an elderly age, renders the old exposed to illnesses and injuries which may wreak havoc with their lives.
evp	renew	verb	1	B2	to arrange to continue an official agreement that was going to end soon	I've decided not to renew my membership of the tennis club this year.	As I had never been abroad before, I hurriedly went to an office where we can apply for a passport or renew it.
evp	renewable	adjective	1	C1	A renewable form of energy can be produced as quickly as it is used.	a renewable energy source such as wind power	But the use of renewable energy sources is always a challenge.
evp	renewable	adjective	2	C2	A renewable official agreement is one that you can arrange to continue when the time limit is reached.	a 6-month renewable contract	This seemed like a good enough alternative, but last week I was overwhelmed by the proposal from the company I worked for in London, of going back and working for another 6-month renewable contract, on a shift basis.
evp	renewal	noun	1	C1	when you renew an agreement, contract, etc.	Their licence is up for renewal.	I suggest we negotiate a new agreement next year, when the current agreement will be due for renewal.
evp	renewal	noun	2	C2	the process of repairing and improving something	They have spent millions on the renewal of the rail system.	Like the farmer who carefully tends his plot of fertile land, we should make constructive use of our free time, so that we can reap the benefits of spiritual renewal and rejuvenation, and to fully enjoy the fruits of our labour.
evp	renovate	verb	1	C1	to repair and decorate a building that is old and in bad condition	He has a business renovating old buildings.	We should also renovate the library and extend the opening hours.
evp	renovation	noun	1	C1	the act of repairing and decorating a building that is old and in bad condition	They spent all their savings on the renovation of an old cottage.	Dear Principal, In response to your memo, I am writing to provide you with some suggestions concerning the renovation of the]Sport Centre, on behalf of the member of the student committee.
evp	renowned	adjective	1	C2	famous	The Lake District is renowned for its beauty.	Maria Sandoral is a talented young artist who, at the age of 23, has far more background than a lot of artists. [...] She is renowned for her restless attitude, and for her deep interest in the field.
evp	rent	noun	1	A2	the amount of money that you pay to live in a building that someone else owns	I pay a higher rent than the other tenants because my room is bigger.	I think I have left my wallet in your house. Please look for it and call me because I have to pay the rent tomorrow.
evp	rent	verb	1	A2	to pay money to live in a building that someone else owns	He'll be renting an apartment until he can find a house to buy.	I rent an apartment.
evp	rent	verb	2	A2	to pay money to use something for a short time	We could rent a car for the weekend.	If you want, you can rent a car.
evp	rent	verb	3	B1	to allow someone to pay you money to live in your building	I rented out my house and went travelling for a year.	My uncle is trying to rent his house.
evp	reorganize	verb	1	C1	to organize something again in order to improve it	He's completely reorganized his schedule for the week.	I hope that my suggestions will be helpful to you in reorganizing this program.
evp	repair	verb	1	A2	to fix something that is broken or damaged	They're repairing the holes in the road at last.	I had my car repaired.
evp	repair	verb	2	C2	to improve a bad situation	It will take a long time to repair relations between the two countries.	The German government was not able to repair the damage caused by the crisis.
evp	repair	noun	1	B1	something that you do to fix something that is broken or damaged	My car is in the garage for repairs.	My father sent it to the workshop for repair.
evp	repay	verb	1	B2	to pay back money that you have borrowed	He had to sell his car to repay the loan.	We could make a deal, so that I could repay my debts.
evp	repay	verb	2	B2	to do something kind for someone who has done something to help you	What can I do to repay you for your kindness?	It's always a pleasure to see you and I hope I'll be able to repay your hospitality if you ever come to visit us in Cambridge.
evp	repeat	verb	1	A2	to say or do something more than once	He repeated the number.	I'd like to repeat that interesting visit.
evp	repeat	verb	2	B1	to tell someone something that someone else has told you	Please don't repeat what I've just told you to anyone else.	He had written he was sorry, he should not have done it, he wished he had not repeated what I told him, he would never do something like that again...
evp	repeated	adjective	1	C2	done or happening more than once	He refused repeated requests for an interviewed.	There were so many people and so many repeated questions and so much noise at home.
evp	repeatedly	adverb	1	C1	many times	He phoned the office repeatedly, hoping his package had been found.	Once you pick up the new words and learn something, you need to say it repeatedly otherwise you will easily forget it]
evp	repetition	noun	1	C2	when you keep doing or saying something over again	It takes time, patience, and repetition to learn a language.	This could in fact lead to a repetition of the mistakes of the past, when the paralyzed United Nations were, due to the small number and influence of neutral countries, a mere bystander to the risky arms-race fought out between the two nuclear superpowers.
evp	repetitive	adjective	1	C1	done or said in the same way several times, with nothing new added	a repetitive job	Chapters have turned repetitive and uninteresting, as nothing new happens.
evp	replace	verb	1	B1	to start using another thing or person instead of the one that you are using now	We're thinking of replacing our old TV with a new one.	And I'm going to replace the desk, because I don't] have enough sp]ac to put a computer onto it.
evp	replace	verb	2	B1	to get something new because the one you had before has been lost or damaged	We'll have to replace this carpet soon.	I'm very sorry about it but don't worry because I bought another one to replace it.
evp	replace	verb	3	B2	to start to be used instead of the thing or person that is being used now	This system will replace the old one.	We felt very disappointed when we discovered that Danny had been replaced by an unknown and really bad actor.
evp	replace	verb	4	C2	to put something back in the place where it usually is	She picked up the books and carefully replaced them on the shelf.	Jane jumped up and carefully replaced the photo on the desk.
evp	replacement	noun	1	B2	the thing or person that replaces something or someone	The agency sent a replacement for the secretary who resigned.	But the people responsible for the concert did their best to find a replacement.
evp	replacement	noun	2	C1	the process of replacing something with something else	the replacement of existing computer equipment	But by using much larger desks, we will be able to use the equipment more efficiently and this will reduce the cost for the replacement of broken equipment.
evp	reply	verb	1	B1	to answer	"Where are you going?" I asked. "Home," he replied.	Please reply as soon as possible.
evp	reply	noun	1	B1	an answer	Her reply was short and unfriendly.	I'm waiting for your reply to tell me when you will come.
evp	report	verb	1	B1	to describe a recent event or situation, especially on television, radio, or in a newspaper	Jo Smith reports on recent developments.	You reported that other performers were second-rate.
evp	report	verb	2	B1	to tell someone in authority that something has happened, especially an accident or crime	He should have reported the accident immediately.	Of course I reported it at the train station, but they couldn't find it when they searched the train.
evp	report	noun	1	B1	a description of an event or situation	a news/weather report	I'll be handing you a report on Chapter 7 the next day.
evp	report card	noun	1	A2	a teacher’s written statement about a student’s performance at school	Sam got three As and a B on his report card.	Jone, I left my report card at your home. It is important to me because I have to show it to my parents.
evp	reportedly	adverb	1	C2	according to what people say about something	New York is reportedly a very exciting place to live.	Some types of birds have reportedly become extinct in the area.
evp	reporter	noun	1	B1	someone whose job is to discover information about news events and describe them on television, radio, the Internet, or in a newspaper	He's a reporter for the local newspaper.	The reporters talked about her life, where she was born, and who her parents are]
evp	represent	verb	1	B2	to be equal to something	In practice the figure represents a 10% pay cut.	It means recycling 90% of the office material that we usually use. This represents a profit to the company which would be given to the employees, so they are motivated.
evp	represent	verb	2	B2	to be the person from a country, school, etc., who is in a competition	He was chosen to represent France at the Olympics.	At the age of 18, I started playing for my country. I mean, I represent Mauritius in international matches.
evp	represent	verb	3	B2	to be a sign or symbol of something	The knife-and-fork symbol on the map represents places serving food.	I think the sea represents life and the sacrifices we make]
evp	represent	verb	4	C2	to officially speak or do something for someone else because they have asked you to	The organization represents over professional basketball players.	We hereby inform you that we have subsequently commenced proceedings aimed at hiring a lawyer to represent our party in court, should such a step be necessary.
evp	represent	verb	5	C2	to show or describe someone or something in a particular way	He represented himself as an expert, but his facts were all wrong.	The innovative architecture would represent our everyday lives filled with work and technology.
evp	representation	noun	1	C2	the way someone or something is shown	an accurate representation of country life	Mildred is an establishment pet, the representation of the current society they are living in.
evp	representation	noun	2	C2	speaking or doing something officially for another person	Can he afford legal representation?	An old politician whose name I do not recall once said "Taxation without representation is tyranny" - nowadays this concept might be extended to corruption itself.
evp	representative	noun	1	B2	someone who speaks or does something officially for another person or group of people	The company has representatives throughout South America.	Dear Mr Robertson, My name is ... and I am a student representative.
evp	reproach	noun	1	C2	criticism of someone, especially for not being successful or not doing what is expected	There was a hint of reproach in his voice.	Before they turned off the light, he saw disappointment and reproach in their eyes.
evp	reproach	verb	1	C2	to criticize someone for not being successful or not doing what is expected	You've no reason to reproach yourself.	I know I shouldn't reproach myself for not giving her money.
evp	reproduce	verb	1	C1	to make a copy of something	The diagram is reproduced by permission of the original author.	MI5 operates two computers, one for word processing and another for scanning and reproducing prints, drawings and photos.
evp	reproduce	verb	2	C1	to repeat something so that it is the same as before	The new design unfortunately reproduced some of the problems of the earlier model.	I overcame this by listening to tapes and by trying to reproduce the native speaker's sounds and stresses.
evp	reproduce	verb	3	C2	If people, animals, or plants reproduce, they produce babies or young animals or plants.	These organisms reproduce by dividing.	Primitive man had a few aims in life like to be born, to reproduce and die, and among them there were two other important priorities, to hunt and to eat.
evp	reproduction	noun	1	C1	a copy of something, especially a painting	The picture is a reproduction of a Manet.	It would be great if the park provided some flight simulators and a reproduction of a space shuttle (so that people get a feeling of how it is to be an astronaut).
evp	reproduction	noun	2	C2	the process of producing babies or young animals and plants	We are learning about reproduction in biology.	What will happen if we live longer but we don't slow down the reproduction of our species?
evp	reptile	noun	1	C1	an animal that produces eggs and uses the heat of the sun to keep its blood warm	Tom liked the reptiles, especially the snakes and the lizards.	The mainland's variable coast offers wonderful protection for all sorts of fish, sea mammals or reptiles.
evp	republic	noun	1	C1	a country that is governed by elected representatives and an elected leader	France is a republic.	Unfortunately in ancient Greece, although the notion of the republic and democracy were invented and quite successfully developed there, not being a noble citizen could be cruelly disappointing and painful.
evp	reputable	adjective	1	C1	known to be good and honest	a reputable organization	I believe such a reputable company as yours will not refuse to accept the responsibilities and prompt action will be taken in due course.
evp	reputation	noun	1	B2	the opinion that people have about someone or something based on their behavior or character in the past	The company has a worldwide reputation for quality.	My country has a great reputation for food.
evp	request	noun	1	B1	when you politely or officially ask for something	They received hundreds of requests for more information.	I decided to reply to your request as soon as possible.
evp	request	verb	1	B1	to politely or officially ask for something	We've requested two more computers.	I have to rent a car at the Hertz agency and request information about where the hotel i]s
evp	require	verb	1	B1	to need or demand something	If you require assistance with your bags, I’ll be glad to get someone to help you.	Weddings are very different in our country and require a lot of prepara]tion
evp	require	verb	2	B2	to officially demand that someone does something	You are required by law to produce a valid passport.	It may occur in the future that they are required to possess knowledge of something they didn't study at school in order to get a job.
evp	requirement	noun	1	B2	something that you must do, or something you need	A college degree is a minimum requirement for many jobs.	If you have any more requirements, please don't hesitate to contact me.
evp	reschedule	verb	1	B2	to change the time of an event or meeting	I rescheduled my doctor’s appointment for later in the week.	He will come next Friday morning, if that does not suit you just call him and reschedule the appointment.
evp	rescue	verb	1	B1	to save someone from a dangerous or unpleasant situation	Fifty passengers had to be rescued from a sinking ship.	A bomb had exploded and that boy rescued me from the accident.
evp	rescue	noun	1	B1	when someone is saved from a dangerous or unpleasant situation	Lifeboats carry out many rescues every month.	Last Friday I saw one that was about two guys who were lost in the jungle for nine days, and the rescue team found them alive.
evp	rescue	noun	2	C2	to help someone who is in a difficult situation	I forgot my purse but Anna came to the rescue and lent me some money.	
evp	research	noun	1	B1	the study of a subject in detail to find information or to gain a better understanding of it	scientific/medical research	I have been doing research about how well people dress, and I think I dress with care.
evp	research	verb	1	B2	to study a subject in detail or to try to find information about a subject	He spent several years researching a rare African dialect.	I had to write an article called Protect our Environment so I researched and studied a lot about it using the Internet and the library to find suitable details.
evp	researcher	noun	1	B2	someone who does research as a job	Researchers uncovered new facts about his family.	As researchers find out more about animals, we learn more about them and because of this we learn more about the world.
evp	resemblance	noun	1	C2	a similarity between two people or things, especially in their appearance	There's a striking resemblance between Diane and her mother.	I must admit that Dick has a strong resemblance to Neolithic Man, but everyone loves him because he is so cheerful and talkative.
evp	resemblance	noun	2	C2	to be similar/not similar/somewhat similar, etc., to something or someone	He bears a resemblance to someone I used to know.	The concert bore no resemblance to any other I have been to, firstly due to the location, and secondly thanks to the spontaneity, yet impressive precision of the performance - the two factors which created the unique atmosphere of the event.
evp	resemble	verb	1	C1	to look like or be like someone or something	She resembles her father.	However, the most representative Romanian resorts resemble the ones in the Alps and maybe even exceed them in the respect of popularity among all walks of life and affordability.
evp	resent	verb	1	C2	to feel angry and upset about a situation or about something that someone has done	I resent having to work late.	More specifically, my cousin's husband and his family, neither of whom I knew very well, deeply resented this decision.
evp	resentment	noun	1	C2	a feeling of anger about a situation that you think is unfair	If you treat your staff differently, it just causes resentment.	I was pleased by the variety of opinions presented; some of the writers expressed a blind faith that we can still learn from our previous mistakes, while others approached the subject with a surprising resentment of our past.
evp	reservation	noun	1	B1	an arrangement that you make to have a seat on an aircraft, a room in a hotel, etc.	I made a reservation at the restaurant for 7 o’clock.	I can make a reservation if you want.
evp	reservation	noun	2	C2	a doubt or a feeling that you do not accept or agree with something completely	I still have reservations about her ability to do the job.	Their families agreed to that, but with certain reservations, as they saw it quite soon to take such an important step.
evp	reserve	verb	1	B1	to arrange to have a seat on an aircraft, a room in a hotel, etc.	I’m sorry, this seat is reserved.	You can reserve the tickets.
evp	reserve	verb	2	B1	to not allow people to use something because it is only for a particular person or for a particular purpose	This space is reserved for ambulances only.	You can also use streets reserved for walkers.
evp	reserve	noun	1	C1	ready to be used if or when you need it	She keeps a little money in reserve.	It would be an idea to have some activity in reserve if you have to cancel something, such as the boat trip on the Thames.
evp	reserve	noun	2	C2	a supply of something that you keep until it is needed	emergency cash reserves	The dependence on oil is a menace because oil reserves will disappear and because at this time we have no other invention to replace it.
evp	reserved	adjective	1	B2	describes people who keep their feelings or thoughts private rather than showing them	Marcus is more reserved than his brother.	He was shy, reserved and a very closed person.
evp	residence	noun	1	C2	a building where someone lives	That big building is the governor's official residence.	Just a short stroll away there is a former King’s residence, Wawel Castle.
evp	resident	noun	1	B2	someone who lives in a particular place	a resident of New York/the UK/Brazil	We will have less anxious residents in cities, who will not hurry to go to work or will not be late home or at the office.
evp	residential	adjective	1	B2	A residential area has only houses and not offices or factories.	It's a largely residential area with one or two small stores.	"Varta" is situated in a quiet residential area and could be called "a family restaurant."
evp	resign	verb	1	B2	to officially tell your employer that you are leaving your job	He resigned as chairman of the committee.	So Laura stepped into her boss'[s] office, wished him a Merry Christmas and resigned.
evp	resign	verb	2	C2	to make yourself accept something that you do not like because you cannot easily change it	He resigned himself to living alone.	Personally I wouldn't like to be at the age when you can't afford anything except bread and butter and you have to resign yourself to this miserable existence without any hope for a brighter future.
evp	resignation	noun	1	C2	when someone tells their employer that they are leaving their job	a letter of resignation	She had been so proud of herself no more than five minutes ago walking out of the editor's office after handing him her letter of resignation.
evp	resignation	noun	2	C2	when you accept something that you do not like because you cannot easily change it	She accepted her illness with calm resignation.	He sighed with resignation and got up.
evp	resilience	noun	1	C2	the ability improve quickly after being hurt or being ill	She had the resilience to try again.	Their resilience had been pushed to the extreme and, but for their sheer longing for a child, they might have given up.
evp	resilient	adjective	1	C2	strong enough to get better quickly after damage, disappointment, illness, shock, etc.	Growth figures show that the economy is still fairly resilient.	He could not stand the thought of staying away from Bill, he was not that resilient.
evp	resist	verb	1	B2	to stop yourself from doing something that you want to do	I can't resist chocolate.	How do we resist all these nice snacks, and stay slim?
evp	resist	verb	2	C1	to fight against something or someone that is attacking you	Students want to discover the truth themselves, and they resist having conclusions forced on them.	The Turkish civilization was poorer than the Greek civilisation and that is one more reason why the Greeks had to resist and fight their enemies.
evp	resistance	noun	1	C2	when people disagree with a change, idea, etc. and refuse to accept it	resistance to political change	The only resistance comes from Jack, an aggressive and impetuous boy who places facts higher than speeches.
evp	resistance	noun	2	C2	when someone fights against someone who is attacking them or competing against them	She didn't put up much resistance.	Their knowledge helped Hitler to prolong his resistance against the overwhelming superiority of the Allies.
evp	resistance	noun	3	C2	an organization that secretly fights against an enemy that has taken control of its country	She was active in the resistance.	Despite the fact that the Germans were many and much more powerful, they faced many difficulties from the Greek resistance.
evp	resistance	noun	4	C2	the ability of your body to not be affected by illnesses	Cold weather may lower the body's resistance to infection.	His physical resistance is exceptional, he is young, in perfect condition, healthy.
evp	resolution	noun	1	C2	the solution to a problem	a successful resolution to the crisis	It might help us to find alternative conflict resolutions.
evp	resolution	noun	2	C2	an official decision that is made after a group or organization has voted	Congress passed a resolution in support of the plan.	India declared that the UN resolution about the ban on nuclear weapons wa] unfair.
evp	resolution	noun	3	C2	a promise to yourself to do something	My New Year's resolution is to do more exercise.	As a New Year's resolution I decided to save some money in a jar for my husband.
evp	resolve	verb	1	C1	to solve or end a problem or difficulty	an attempt to resolve the dispute	I would very much like to suggest a meeting, in order to resolve some of the issues.
evp	resolve	noun	1	C2	when you are very determined to do something	The training was tough, but his resolve never wavered.	Daniella's attention was focused on the scene and she was truly enjoying what was going on. This sight toughened Marco's resolve.
evp	resort	noun	1	B1	a place where many people go on vacation or for an activity they enjoy	a beach resort	We stayed one week in a chalet near the ski resort.
evp	resort	noun	2	C2	something that you do because everything else has failed	As a last resort, we could ask your mother to help.	As a last resort and a solution for those that don't admire books, I would recommend buying a comic in which you see more pictures than words.
evp	resource	noun	1	B2	something useful that a country, person, or organization has which they can use	natural resources	With all the resources on the Net, I don't need to go to the library as often as I used to.
evp	resourceful	adjective	1	C2	good at finding ways to solve problems	When we didn't have much money, we had to be more resourceful.	The tormentor was inventive, clever, resourceful and learned fast how to make the most ordinary objects (a moth, a crow) into a source of overwhelming fear for his victim.
evp	respect	noun	1	B1	when you admire someone because of their knowledge, skill, or achievements	She's an excellent teacher and I have the greatest respect for her.	I want to improve my English, and there the teachers are respected and listen to the pupils.
evp	respect	noun	2	B1	when you are polite to someone, especially because they are older or more important than you	You should show more respect for your parents.	As for people who attend weddings, it's important for them to wear formal clothes to show their respect for the new couple.
evp	respect	noun	3	B2	in particular ways	In some respects, I had to admit, I had behaved foolishly.	How's your friend Mike? He is in many respects better than a computer, isn't he? (Teasing you again, sorry).
evp	respect	noun	4	B2	relating to a particular thing	Before we move on, are there any more questions with respect to the treasurer's report?	With respect to the ages of the members, they are between fifteen and twenty years old.
evp	respect	noun	5	C1	used to politely disagree with or give a negative opinion about something	I’ve been thinking about what you said and, with all due respect, I think you’re mistaken.	Finally we would like to point out two things that should be improved. The first one is entertainment, which, with all due respect, is very poor.
evp	respect	verb	1	B1	to admire someone because of their knowledge, achievements, etc.	I respect him for his honesty.	It's nice to have a friend who respects you and who you respect too.
evp	respect	verb	2	B2	If you respect someone's rights, customs, wishes, etc. you accept their importance and are careful not to do anything they would not want.	If you decide to do otherwise we will, of course, respect your wishes.	But the situation is getting worse because of the decisions of the European Union, which is trying to unify Europe[an] education without respecting the wishes of the students, who are trying to stop this process.
evp	respectable	adjective	1	B2	behaving in a socially acceptable way or looking socially acceptable	a respectable family	But no o]n could think of a respectable doctor poisoning two of his patients, which is what he actually did.
evp	respectable	adjective	2	C2	large enough or good enough	She earns a respectable salary.	So we had to wait until he could confidently say to his parents, "Look, I am an adult now, and I'm working for a large company with a respectable job, and I am going to get married if I want to."
evp	respected	adjective	1	B2	admired by people because of your knowledge, achievements, etc.	a highly respected doctor/politician	Looking at Pele's life, we discover that he was a respected man who did his be]s to help others and his country.
evp	respectful	adjective	1	C1	showing respect for someone or something	They treated us in a very respectful manner.	Were I not respectful of your work, I would say that your reporter did not attend this event and just imagined it.
evp	respectfully	adverb	1	C2	in a way that shows respect for someone or something	He always spoke to them very respectfully.	I respectfully request you, as a store manager, to personally look into this situation, assist in investigating the problem with the faulty equipment as a matter of urgency by sending round a qualified engineer and, if found unfixable, arrange for a new unit to be supplied.
evp	respective	adjective	1	C1	relating to each of the people or things that you have just talked about	Barkley and Jordan are the two best players on their respective teams.	Relatives and friends of the respective families were very successful in being guides for some hours.
evp	respectively	adverb	1	C1	in a way that relates to each of the people or things that you have just talked about	They scored 10 and 17 points, respectively.	Not only did we reach our target figure but also, 85% of the revenue generated went to the hospital, and only 10% and 5% were for entertainment costs and administration costs, respectively.
evp	respond	verb	1	B2	to say or do something as a reaction to something that has been said or done	To every question, he responded "I don't know."	The two men didn't respond so David closed the door.
evp	response	noun	1	B2	an answer or reaction to something that has been said or done	Responses to our advertisement have been disappointing.	[The telephone is an easy way to contact others, better than writing a letter and waiting for a response.
evp	response	noun	2	B2	as an answer or reaction to	The law was passed by the town council in response to
complaints from residents.	I am writing in response to your advertisement, which appeared in the newspaper on November the 23rd, looking for a person to work at weekends in your café.
evp	responsibility	noun	1	B2	something that it is your job or duty to deal with	The head of the department has various additional responsibilities.	It is the country's responsibility to supply the schools with everything needed.
evp	responsibility	noun	2	B2	to say that you have done something or caused something to happen, especially something bad	The company took full responsibility for the accident.	Sometimes he just takes all the responsibility for the projects, which he should not do, at least not alone.
evp	rest	verb	1	B1	to relax or sleep because you are tired after an activity or because you are ill	The doctor told him that he should rest for a few days.	The weather was particularly sunny there, so we decided to eat an ice-cream and to rest a little.
evp	rest	verb	2	B2	to stop using your eyes/feet/legs, etc. for a while because they are tired	He looked away from the computer screen to rest his eyes.	
evp	rest	verb	3	C2	If something rests somewhere, or if you rest it somewhere, it is supported by something else.	She rested her elbows on the table.	This masterpiece, painted in shocking colors on an enormous canvas, shows an Indian, completely out of proportion, sitting on the ground and resting his head on his arms.
evp	rest	noun	1	A2	the part of something that remains, or the others that remain	Two students are in the library and the rest are in the classroom.	Bring a pencil and some paper, the teacher will give us the rest of the material.
evp	rest	noun	2	A2	a period of time when you relax or sleep	Why don't you take a rest?	My doctor told me that I should get more rest.
evp	restart	verb	1	C1	to start something again that had stopped	They want to restart the talks.	On the other hand, according to our recent survey, the company is getting into a better situation than it was beginning of this year and wants to restart trading with us.
evp	restart	verb	2	C1	If you restart a computer, you turn it off and then on again.	Try restarting your computer.	
evp	restaurant	noun	1	A1	a place where you can buy and eat a meal	We had lunch at/in a
restaurant near the station.	Sometimes I'm very tired because I work in a restaurant.
evp	restless	adjective	1	C1	unable to be still or relax because you are bored or nervous	The audience was getting restless.	Children are restless and they like to play and want to have fun all the time, even when they are flying.
evp	restless	adjective	2	C2	not satisfied with what you are doing now and wanting something new	The opposition parties provide no clear alternative for restless voters.	She yearned for something different from her day-to-day life and grew increasingly restless.
evp	restore	verb	1	B2	to repair and clean something old	The badly neglected paintings have all been carefully restored.	For example, the old church could be restored, to be as beautiful as it used to be.
evp	restore	verb	2	C1	to make something good exist again	Three wins in a row helped restore the team's confidence.	It would also restore our confidence in our paper if the correct version of events were printed, together with your statement of apology.
evp	restrain	verb	1	C1	to control the actions or behavior of someone, sometimes by using force	He became violent and had to be physically restrained.	It is sadly true, that we, from time to time, find it difficult to restrain our vivacious spirits.
evp	restraint	noun	1	C2	calm and controlled behavior	He showed admirable restraint and refused to be provoked.	In his opinion] a really professional butler should possess "dignity," which means that he should not expose his feelings and should always be capable of emotional restraint even if he is being provoked by something very surprising, alarming or vexing.
evp	restrict	verb	1	C1	to limit something	The state legislature voted to restrict development in the area.	We must try to restrict the use of water in agriculture.
evp	restricted	adjective	1	C1	controlled or limited	Many events are free, so families on restricted budgets can participate.	As for things I personally do not like is, first of all, the restricted hours of library availability.
evp	restriction	noun	1	C1	a situation or event that limits what people can do	For the first time, I could do exactly what I wanted, without any restrictions.	When people travel on their own, they can do what they want, without restrictions or limitations from their family.
evp	restriction	noun	2	C2	a rule or law that limits or controls what people can do	speed/parking restrictions	Our world is becoming smaller and smaller: boundaries are erased from the maps, countries cooperate more intensively, and trade restrictions are falling away.
evp	restrictive	adjective	1	C2	limiting activities too much	restrictive practices	On the other hand, being too restrictive may result in making the children passive, causing them to take everything for granted and leaving them completely unprepared for the harsh reality of life.
evp	restroom	noun	1	A2	a room or small building in a public place in which there are several toilets	Do you know where the restroom is?	They reached the airport at 8:45 p.m. The flight was to take off at 11:30 p.m. So Lucy's father went to use the restroom.
evp	restructure	verb	1	C2	to organize a system or organization in a new way	They are restructuring the business.	Nowadays, the globalization and merging trends are creating industrial giants that regularly have to restructure in order to minimize their production costs.
evp	result	noun	1	B1	something that happens or exists because something else has happened	Most accidents are the result of human error.	As a result, I am a bit cold now.
evp	result	noun	2	B1	information that you get from something such as an exam, a scientific experiment, or a medical test	She's waiting for the results of a blood test.	Tim was my manager and he had promised me to write as soon as he was able to find out the music quiz results.
evp	result	noun	3	B1	the score or number of votes at the end of a competition or election	Election results are beginning to come in.	The[y] were all so surprised about the result of the game Germany against Saudi Arabia that they welcom[ed me in a very friendly way.
evp	result	verb	1	B2	to cause a particular situation to happen	The fire resulted in damage to their property.	It has resulted in a lack of repair services.
evp	resume	verb	1	C1	If an activity resumes, or if you resume it, it starts again after a pause.	The talks are due to resume today.	I hope our two companies can resume their excellent cooperation in the future and I am looking forward to using one of your aircraft again.
evp	résumé	noun	1	B1	a document that describes your education, qualifications and the jobs you have done, which you send to an employer who you want to work for	If you wish to apply, please send your résumé and a cover letter.	As you will see from my enclosed resume, I graduated from Faculty of Education in the Chinese University of Hong Kong and I worked in a child care center for three years.
evp	retail	noun	1	C1	the sale of products to customers for their own use, usually in stores	jobs in retail	I work in retail and I know how important it is to work with your team.
evp	retail	adjective	1	C1	involving or related to the sale of products to customers for their own use	Retail sales are rising.	It is important to have continuous retail sales for any economy to function.
evp	retailer	noun	1	C2	someone who sells products to the public	Retailers claim the new sales tax will hurt business.	They claim that retailers and advertisers brainwash us into buying more than necessary.
evp	retain	verb	1	C2	to continue to keep something	Francis retained control of the company.	But, one might claim, this could also be good, as people retain their local customs, lifestyle, etc. and do not have the anxiety or stress of living in cities.
evp	retention	noun	1	C2	the ability to keep or continue having something	Officials are focusing on job creation, not job retention.	Additional audio and video inputs allows easier assimilation and retention of this information.
evp	rethink	verb	1	C1	to change what you think about something or what you plan to do	We've had to rethink our strategy.	There are some points to be rethought, although the proposed plan was generally accepted.
evp	retire	verb	1	B1	to leave your job and stop working, usually because you are old	She retired from the company in 1990.	Nowadays I'm free because I retired recently.
evp	retired	adjective	1	B2	having stopped working, often because you are old	Both my parents are retired.	This person is a retired soldier who fought during World War II.
evp	retirement	noun	1	B2	when you leave your job and stop working, usually because you are old	Many teachers over the age of 50 are taking early retirement.	Dear Pamela, I really like you and am happy about our sharing the same office but I'm afraid that, because of your way of life, you will never reach the age of retirement.
evp	retirement	noun	2	B2	the period of your life after you have stopped working	We wish you a long and happy retirement.	Before my retirement, I spent some 11 years in the U.S., Germany and Switzerland where I learned a lot about the different cultures and people's customs and manners.
evp	retrieve	verb	1	C2	to get something after first finding it	Important historic documents were retrieved from a from a storage room last week.	When I have to make a credit decision, I retrieve the relevant industry analysis report in order to obtain a better understanding of the industry of the borrower.
evp	return	verb	1	A2	to go or come back to a place where you were before	He returned to Nigeria in 2009.	She will return to Turkey next Friday.
evp	return	verb	2	A2	to give, send, or put something back where it came from	I have to return the book by Friday.	Can you return it to me, please?
evp	return	verb	3	B2	to start doing an activity again or talking about something again	I returned to work three months after Susie was born.	[In] August I must return to school, so I can only go to California in July.
evp	return	verb	4	B2	to happen again or start to exist again	You should call the doctor if the pain returns.	This made her calm down all of a sudden, and her voice returned.
evp	return	verb	5	C1	to react to something that someone does or says by doing or saying the same	I returned his smile.	After the meeting he told me that this was the reason why he likes to work with me - thereby he returned the motivation that I gave to him.
evp	return	verb	6	C1	to go back to the usual condition	Life has begun to return to normal now that the holidays are over.	After exactly ten minutes the electricity was switched on again and our life returned to normal - what a relief!
evp	return	noun	1	B1	when someone goes or comes back to a place where they were before	The whole town came out to celebrate his return from the war.	But on the return from Zurich we had an accident and the car has been destroyed.
evp	return	noun	2	B1	a key on a computer keyboard that is used to make the computer accept information or to start a new line in a document	Type in the password and press return.	
evp	return	noun	3	B2	in exchange for something or as a reaction to something	I'd like to give them something in return for everything they've done for us.	I had a great time and in return I'd love to invite you to live at my house, while you are in Poland.
evp	reunion	noun	1	C2	an occasion when people meet together again, often after a long time	a family/school reunion	All the former students where left with a lot of good memories, which was clearly shown a few months ago when we organized a reunion of the old B class, the number of people present was double what was expected.
evp	reveal	verb	1	B2	to give someone a piece of information that is surprising or that was previously secret	He was jailed for revealing secrets to the Russians.	I immediately knew that something was wrong so I had a word with Pat. She denied having revealed my secret.
evp	reveal	verb	2	C2	to allow something to be seen that, until then, had been hidden	X-rays revealed that my ribs had been cracked but not broken.	When she was walking down the street feeling elated by the success of the business meeting, a gorgeous thirtyish man wearing a beige polo neck swiftly approached and turned toward her and smiled, revealing strong white teeth.
evp	revelation	noun	1	C2	a piece of information that is discovered although it was intended to be kept secret	He resigned following revelations about his private life.	No, the mayor didn't know, but said he was looking forward to any more revelations about their heroic community member.
evp	revelation	noun	2	C2	to be an extremely pleasant surprise	Anna's musical talent was a revelation.	Every word you said was a revelation to me.
evp	revenge	noun	1	B2	something that you do to punish someone who has done something bad to you	He's made life very difficult for me but I'll get/take my revenge.	Lew Kuan Yee had sworn revenge against Michael, the detective who had sent him behind bars.
evp	revenue	noun	1	C1	income received by a business or government or the amount of this income	state/federal revenues	Both the coffee bar and the shop will generate revenue, be self-sufficient and, more importantly, create jobs for the college students.
evp	reversal	noun	1	C2	a change to the opposite position, direction or order of something	In a significant reversal of earlier trends, people are moving back to Salt Lake City.	As a result, more and more people will become aware of the existing situation and contribute to its reversal.
evp	reverse	verb	1	C1	to change a situation or change the order of things so that it becomes the opposite	Now that you have a job and I don't, our situations are reversed.	This trend should be reversed in the near future.
evp	reverse	noun	1	C1	in the opposite order or way	Now go through the steps in reverse to take the bookcase apart.	They want to see what they are not like, how they would not react and this, in reverse, helps them to find themselves.
evp	reverse	noun	2	C2	the method for driving a vehicle that makes it go backward	Put the car in/into reverse.	I had a last good look around and then I returned to the car and put it into reverse.
evp	reversible	adjective	1	C2	If something is reversible, it can be changed back to what it was before.	Most of the damage done to the cells is reversible.	The friendship that I thought was for life stopped somewhere and somehow in an unexpected way, which didn't allow us to make the situation reversible.
evp	reversible	adjective	2	C2	Reversible clothes can be worn so that the inside is the outside.	a reversible jacket	
evp	review	verb	1	B1	to study a subject before you take a test	She spent half the night reviewing her notes for the French test.	What am I going to review for the exam?
evp	review	verb	2	B2	to give your opinion in a report about a book, film, television program, etc.	He reviews movies for the local paper.	
evp	review	verb	3	C1	to consider something again in order to decide if changes should be made	Officials have to review the text before it’s made public.	On the other hand I would like to ask you kindly to review my conditions of employment and to take in consideration my expenses, which I think would be more than correct.
evp	review	noun	1	B1	a report in a newspaper, magazine, or program that gives an opinion about a new book, film, etc.	He writes movie/theater/book reviews for the newspapers.	I was thinking we should see "Show Bar," the review is good!
evp	review	noun	2	B1	the study you do to learn about a subject or before a test	The teacher devoted the last week of the semester to review	I'll be in an exam review on Tuesday at 11:00am, so I was thinking if we can change our meeting, the same day, just a little bit later, if you don't mind we could meet us at the Italian restaurant at 3:00pm.
evp	review	noun	3	C2	the process of considering something again in order to make changes to it	a review of teachers' pay	
evp	revise	verb	1	B2	to change something so that it is more accurate or better than before	His publishers made him revise his manuscript three times.	I advise you to revise your schedule.
evp	revival	noun	1	C2	when something becomes more active or popular again	a revival in folk music	In recent years the fear of society has led to a revival of conservative ideas that want to shift responsibility for this kind of education back to the family unit.
evp	revive	verb	1	C2	to make something from the past exist again	to revive memories	Why not revive the "good old" reading sessions we had in many town libraries in the 70s and 80s?
evp	revolt	verb	1	C2	to try to change a government, often using violence, or to refuse to accept someone's authority	Many were killed when nationalists revolted against the new government.	What often happens, if money is the substitute for love, is that children revolt against their parents.
evp	revolt	verb	2	C2	to think that something is extremely unpleasant	They were revolted by conditions on the farm.	They are revolted by Olivia's decision which also shows the condescending opinion they have of the Nawab.
evp	revolution	noun	1	B2	a change in the way a country is governed, usually to a different political system and often involving violence or war	The French Revolution changed France from a monarchy to a republic.	It's supposed to be read as a study of the Soviet dictatorship during the October revolution and beyond into the Cold War era.
evp	revolution	noun	2	B2	a very important change in the way that people do things	a technological revolution	The technological revolution taking place today can be directly linked to the amazing evolution of our communication abilities throughout these last years.
evp	revolutionary	adjective	1	B2	completely different from what was done before	The twentieth century brought about revolutionary changes in our lifestyles.	Maybe my ideas are too revolutionary but ... I think in this way Torino would be NICER!
evp	revolutionary	adjective	2	B2	involved in or relating to a revolution	a revolutionary leader/movement	
evp	reward	noun	1	B1	something good that you get or experience because you have worked hard, behaved well, etc.	There'll be a reward for whoever finishes first.	A TV company chose our school for a program! We won a contest with a surprise reward, and that was it!
evp	reward	noun	2	B1	an amount of money given to someone for helping to find something or for helping the police to return stolen property	The police offered a reward for any information about the robbery.	And as a reward, my father took out RM500 and gave it to the bystander.
evp	reward	verb	1	B2	to give someone a reward	She was rewarded for her bravery.	She was so happy afterwards and was even rewarded with a medal.
evp	rewarding	adjective	1	C1	making you feel satisfied that you have done something well or done something helpful	a rewarding experience	I led a workshop with children, which was a very rewarding experience, and performed for people of all ages and backgrounds.
evp	rewrite	verb	1	B2	to write something again in order to improve it	I had to rewrite my essay.	I trust you will give this matter your immediate attention and rewrite your report using the information given.
evp	rhyme	verb	1	C2	If a word rhymes with another word, the end part of the words sound the same.	"Moon" rhymes with "June."	
evp	rhyme	noun	1	C2	a short poem that has words ending in the same sound at the end of the lines	The card contained a short rhyme.	It gives a child immense pleasure when her parent reads out a rhyme or a story to her.
evp	rhyme	noun	2	C2	a style of writing or speaking that uses words that end with the same sound	The story was written entirely in rhyme.	The poem had no rhyme and it had a free verse form.
evp	rhythm	noun	1	B2	a regular, repeating pattern of sound or movement	He beat out a jazz rhythm on the drums.	From then on I have been suffering from high blood pressure and disturbances of the rhythm of the heart-beat.
evp	rib	noun	1	B2	one of the curved bones in the chest	He cracked a rib in the accident.	I stayed there for 2 weeks with a broken leg, sore ribs and a couple of scars.
evp	ribbon	noun	1	C2	a long, narrow piece of cloth that is used for tying things or used for decoration	Her hair was tied with a velvet ribbon.	Just a week before, the wedding family and close friends come together to decorate the tent with special hand-folded ribbons.
evp	rice	noun	1	A1	small grains from a plant that are cooked and eaten	boiled/fried rice	I like rice and fish.
evp	rich	adjective	1	A2	having much more money than most people, or owning things that could be sold for a lot of money	She's from a very rich family.	I got many CDs, DVDs and clothes, but the best present was a 72" Plasma television that I received from our rich friend, Richie Rich.
evp	rich	adjective	2	B2	Rich food has a lot of fat, oil or eggs in it.	a rich sauce	The cooking is based on traditional recipes of Westfalian origin and it is tasty but often very rich!
evp	rich	adjective	3	B2	containing a lot of something that is important or valuable	The region is rich in minerals and coal deposits.	Their lessons are valuable, rich in knowledge and funny.
evp	rich	noun	1	C1	people who are rich	These ski resorts are for the rich.	What did the rich do all day?
evp	riches	noun	1	C2	a lot of money or valuable objects	To her, $500 seemed like untold riches.	First, her career can be regarded as the typical rise from "rags to riches."
evp	richness	noun	1	C1	the interesting or impressive quality of something that shows how strong or varied it is	I was amazed by the richness of their traditions.	Cultures of Mexico: You will be able to discover the richness and variety of Mexican ancient cultures: - Mexica - Maya - Olmeca - Tolteca - Zapoteca - Chichimeca.
evp	ride	verb	1	A1	to travel by sitting on a horse, bicycle, or motorcycle and controlling it	I learned to ride a bike when I was four.	I like riding my bike in Gloucester.
evp	ride	verb	2	A2	to travel in a vehicle, such as a car, bus or train	We rode the train from Sydney to Perth.	
evp	ride	noun	1	B1	a trip in a vehicle or train	It's a short bus ride to the airport.	On the next day, I went swimming in the lake early in the morning and took a bus ride home after that.
evp	ride	noun	2	B1	a trip you take by riding a bicycle, motorcycle, or horse	He's gone out for a ride on his bike.	I swam in the sea, sunbathed on the golden beach and had a ride on a scooter.
evp	ride	noun	3	B1	a machine at a fair that moves people up and down, around in circles, etc., as they sit in it	She wanted me to go on a ride with her.	I recommend visits to the beaches because there are different rides, boating and much more available.
evp	rider	noun	1	B1	someone who rides a horse, bicycle, or motorcycle	One of the riders was thrown off his horse.	A lot of good riders will come with their horses to take part in a competition.
evp	ridiculous	adjective	1	B2	very silly	I'd look ridiculous in a hat like that.	So, it is just ridiculous to hear that there were fewer than 2000 people there.
evp	right	adjective	1	A1	correct or true	He only got half the answers right.	You're right!
evp	right	adjective	2	A2	on or toward the side of your body that is to the east when you are facing north	Most people write with their right hand.	He saw a man running away holding a gun i] his right hand.
evp	right	adjective	3	B1	suitable or best in a particular situation	I'm not sure she's the right person for the job.	I know that you will make the right choice!
evp	right	adjective	4	B2	fair or morally acceptable	It's not right to criticize him behind his back.	The Police arrived after one hour and Agatha decided to tell them everything, because it was the right thing.
evp	right	adjective	5	C2	all the way	Did you read it right through to the end?	As time passes by, Ralph learns about Piggy's value as he is the only one that stays with him right to the end.
evp	right	adverb	1	A2	to the side of your body that is to the east when you are facing north	Turn/Go right at the first traffic light.	We are going to walk along Main Street and turn right next to the library.
evp	right	adverb	2	A2	used at the beginning of a sentence to get someone's attention or to show you have understood someone	Right, whose turn is it to clean up?	
evp	right	adverb	3	B1	exactly in a place or time	He's right here with me.	That's me, right here.
evp	right	adverb	4	B1	immediately	Do you want to start right away?	As soon as I saw the handwriting on the envelope I smiled. I recognized it right away.
evp	right	adverb	5	B2	correctly	He guessed right most of the time.	
evp	right	noun	1	A2	the right side of your body, or the direction toward this side	You'll find her in the second room on the right.	On the right there is a wardrobe and a table with a chair.
evp	right	noun	2	B2	morally correct behavior	I've tried to teach them the difference between right and wrong.	He was raised not knowing the difference between right and wrong.
evp	right	noun	3	B2	something that the law allows you to do	the right to free speech	To sum up, famous people are the same as we are, and we all have the right to lead a private life and no right to break into their privacy.
evp	right	noun	4	C1	to have, or not have, a good reason for something	He has a right to be angry.	Finally, you have no right to say that we "did not reach our target figure" since the whole event was considered to be a success by many people.
evp	right	noun	5	C2	political groups which support limited economic controls, private ownership of property and wealth, and limited government	The right campaigned against the president.	
evp	right	noun	6	C2	in a way that does not rely on anything or anyone else	I think this is a dialect, rather than a language in its own right.	Major international sports competitions can either be understood as a means to an end or an end in their own right.
evp	right-hand	adjective	1	A2	on or to the right of something	On the right-hand side you'll see a sign.	You can see my house on the right-hand side.
evp	rightly	adverb	1	B2	in a correct way	He is rightly concerned about the situation.	If I remember rightly, there were over 5,000.
evp	right-wing	adjective	1	C2	supporting limited economic controls, private property and wealth, and limited government	She's extremely right-wing.	Some of them even turn to right-wing extremism.
evp	rigid	adjective	1	C2	not able to change or be changed easily	I found the rules a little too rigid.	They were all trying to do their best in the rigid framework of the existing system (one of them even succeeded in making the difference).
evp	ring	noun	1	A2	a round piece of jewelry that you wear on your finger	a wedding ring	Sammy gave me a gold ring, Remi an orange sweater, Minny a bag and Dominique a red cap.
evp	ring	noun	2	B2	something that is the shape of a circle	The children sat in a ring around the teacher.	It is forced to jump into a ring of fire, if it does not want to do it, it will be hit.
evp	ring	noun	3	B2	the sound a bell makes	The ring of the doorbell woke him up.	Walking down the street, he heard a noise: just the ring of the clock tower.
evp	ring	verb	1	B1	If something rings, it makes the sound of a bell, and if you ring a bell, you cause it to make a sound.	The phone's ringing.	Me and a few of my friends were having a day off school so we went to a lovely beach by the Danube river, when my phone rang.
evp	ring	verb	2	C2	If a word, especially a name, rings a bell, you think you have heard it before.	Shane Watson? That name rings a bell.	Its name is Laser - I suppose it rings a bell?
evp	ring	verb	3	C2	If something someone says rings hollow, it does not sound true or sincere.	He said he was pleased, but his words rang hollow.	Everything rang hollow to her, so she decided to follow him in order to understand what had happened and her fiancé became so friendly and understanding.
evp	riot	noun	1	C1	angry, violent behavior by a crowd of people in a public place	The march turned into a riot when the crowd found the way was blocked.	A riot started in the city but the police managed to stop it before anyone got seriously hurt.
evp	riot	noun	2	C2	extremely colorful and bright	Jim's rose garden is a riot of color.	I like the narrow streets, the smell of overripe fruit in the middle of the summer, the gardens, which are a riot of color in spring, small thatched cottages, which you can never see anywhere else in Russia.
evp	riot	verb	1	C2	to take part in a riot	People were rioting in the streets.	If there are a lot of frustrated individuals in an area, they may band together and begin rioting.
evp	rip	verb	1	B2	to tear quickly and suddenly, or to tear something quickly and suddenly	His new shorts ripped when he fell down.	While I was walking I stepped on my dress and ripped it.
evp	rip	verb	2	C1	to remove something by pulling it away	The previous owner ripped out the fireplace.	During the moving process two legs of my 100 year old dinning table were broken. One leg was completely ripped off, while the other is just managing to hold on.
evp	rip	verb	3	C2	to cheat someone by making them pay too much money for something	We got ripped off when we bought our car.	Although I prefer wedding ceremonies the traditional way, I do feel that it's also a big market where brides-to-be get ripped off by the ridiculous prices of wedding gowns, venues and photographers.
evp	ripe	adjective	1	B2	developed enough and ready to be eaten	ripe fruit	There were a lot of beautiful, ripe, red strawberries and I couldn't resist picking one of them.
evp	ripe	adjective	2	C2	developed enough to be ready for something	The country is ripe for change.	We can say that the time was ripe for his success.
evp	rip-off	noun	1	C1	when someone is cheated by being made to pay too much for something	The food there is a real rip-off.	What is more, I am sure students won't feel like it is a rip-off because prices are really reasonable.
evp	rise	verb	1	B1	When the sun or moon rises, it appears in the sky.	The sun rises in the east.	It was very beautiful, especially in the morning when the sun was rising.
evp	rise	verb	2	B1	to move up	The balloon rose up into the air.	
evp	rise	verb	3	B2	to increase in level	rising temperatures	Also, due to global warming, sea levels might rise and the risk of flooding will also rise.
evp	rise	verb	4	C2	to become important, successful, or rich	He quickly rose to stardom.	He then joined the company he is now the managing director of; during 15 years, he steadily rose through the ranks to the top.
evp	rise	noun	1	B2	an increase in the level of something	a sudden rise in temperature	Scientifically speaking the number of people who visit doctors simply because they suffer from ulcers and similar diseases is on the rise.
evp	rise	noun	2	C2	when someone becomes very famous or powerful	The movie charts his rise to power.	He is one of these artists whom I respect immensely as his rise to celebrity was a long and painstaking journey, mainly because he was always faithful to the kind of music he wanted to play and to the ideals he wanted to convey through his lyrics, and also because he shows great modesty.
evp	rise	noun	3	C2	to cause something	International support has given rise to a new optimism within the company.	More often than not, however, such events will also give rise to all sorts of contradictions.
evp	risk	noun	1	B2	the possibility of something bad happening	the risk of heart disease	Nowadays, everything is a risk, even at home we are in danger.
evp	risk	noun	2	B2	being in a situation where something bad is likely to happen	All houses on the lake front are at risk of flooding.	Lives are at risk!
evp	risk	noun	3	B2	to do something although something bad might happen because of it	This time I'm not taking any risks - I'm going to back up my computer.	He had to take a risk if he wanted to save his love, Anne.
evp	risk	noun	4	C1	something bad that might happen	There are more health risks when older women get pregnant.	In general, I believe that the awareness of the pubic about the health risks is the most important milestone in this race.
evp	risk	noun	5	C2	to do something although something bad might happen because of it	I think I'll run the risk of hurting her feelings, and tell her the truth.	They constantly run the risk of losing their physical abilities.
evp	risk	noun	6	C2	If you do something at your own risk, you are completely responsible for anything bad that might happen because of it.	Customers may leave vehicles here at their own risk.	However, when a young man decides to go on a dangerous expedition, he should do so at his own risk and should not rely on help from anyone.
evp	risk	verb	1	B2	If you risk something bad, you do something although that bad thing might happen.	I'd like to help you, but I can't risk losing my job.	You shouldn't risk damaging your health.
evp	risk	verb	2	B2	If you risk something important, you cause it to be in a dangerous situation where you might lose it.	He risked his life to save me.	If she had gone home by taxi, she would have not risked her life.
evp	risky	adjective	1	B2	dangerous because something bad might happen	It's risky to buy a car without some good advice.	[Cycling on this road is a bit risky and demanding so I would agree with Chris o] that point.
evp	ritual	noun	1	C2	an activity or a set of actions that are always done in the same way or at the same time, sometimes as part of a religion	Coffee and the paper are part of my morning ritual.	I want to be able to travel to another country (for example Jamaica), learn a new culture (like the Rastafarian culture) and their rites and rituals.
evp	rival	noun	1	C1	someone or something that is competing with another person or thing	business/political rivals	Around 60% of our international rivals had their stands there, usually with 2-3 staff members always kept busy by the public.
evp	rival	verb	1	C2	to be good enough to compete with someone or something else	Australian wine can now rival the best from France.	His intimidating presence was rivalled only by that of his ferocious-looking dog.
evp	rivalry	noun	1	C2	a serious and often continuing competition	There is intense rivalry between the two teams.	These major differences create a great rivalry between the two boys.
evp	river	noun	1	A1	a long, natural area of water that flows across land and into the ocean, a lake, another river, etc.	the River Thames	I like to walk by the river Exe.
evp	river	noun	2	C1	where a river goes into the sea	It is a small village, by the mouth of a river.	The mouth of the river with a narrow exit to the sea, provided an extra excitement because of the pressure of the water when joining the sea.
evp	road	noun	1	A1	a route between places, usually with a hard surface built for vehicles to drive on	a dirt/gravel/paved road	[On] Wedn[e]sdays and Saturdays the road is very busy.
evp	road	noun	2	A1	used in the name of a road as part of an address	142 Park Road	I go shopping on Ladypool Road.
evp	road	noun	3	C1	driving or traveling, usually over a long distance	We'd been on the road for 4 hours so we stopped to stretch and have a snack.	I have experienced sitting behind a steering wheel on the road for many years.
evp	roar	verb	1	C2	to make a loud, deep sound	We could hear a lion roaring on the other side of the zoo.	There are also unforgettable immediate responses that will make people roar with laughter.
evp	roar	verb	2	C2	to say something in a very loud voice	"Stop that!" he roared.	"Stop clicking that picture box and help me with the cows," her father would roar and if it was not the cows, it was the pigs, and if it was not the pigs, it was the hens.
evp	roar	noun	1	C2	a loud, deep sound	a lion's roar	However, I will try to portray an accurate picture of what living under the constant roar of aircraft engines is about.
evp	roast	verb	1	A2	If you roast food, you cook it in an oven or over a fire, and if food roasts, it is cooked in an oven or over a fire.	Roast the vegetables for 35 minutes.	After we have baby lamb which is roasted in the special oven with potatoes.
evp	roast	adjective	1	A2	cooked in an oven or over a fire	roast turkey	But the specialities in every celebration are roast pork and roast chicken.
evp	rob	verb	1	B1	to steal from someone or somewhere, often using violence	The store was robbed last night.	About twenty tourists were robbed.
evp	rob	verb	2	C2	to take something important away from someone	Elderly people should not be robbed of their dignity.	The white man came and deprived the Africans of all their culture. They tried to make them worship a new, unfamiliar god and simply tried to rob them of their own identity.
evp	robbery	noun	1	B2	the crime of stealing from somewhere or someone	a bank robbery	We were fed up with our lives and all the problems we had so one of us decided to organize a bank robbery. [At] first we laughed at him because it was such a silly idea but finally it was the only solution for us to become rich.
evp	robot	noun	1	B1	a machine controlled by a computer, which can move and do other things that people can do	They use robots to spray the cars.	I think there will be tall buildings and the population will rise a lot. I think there will be robots too.
evp	rock	noun	1	A2	loud, modern music with a strong beat, often played with electric guitars and drums	rock music	I like rock music.
evp	rock	noun	2	B1	the hard, natural substance that forms part of the earth's surface, or an area of this substance sticking out of the sea or ground	a layer of rock	There are many wonderful hills, mountains, lakes, caves and rocks.
evp	rock	verb	1	C2	to move backward and forward or from side to side, or to make someone or something do this	She rocked back and forth on her chair.	The violent storm was rocking the ship back and forth.
evp	rock	verb	2	C2	to do or say something that changes a situation in a way that causes problems	They seemed very happy and I didn't want to rock the boat.	But let's not rock the boat. Our preposterous cravings and wishes might become our down]fall
evp	rocket	noun	1	B2	a tube-shaped device containing fuel and an engine that pushes a vehicle into space	They launched a rocket yesterday.	[With] computers, you can control machines or a rocket or a satellite.
evp	rocket	noun	2	C2	a tube-shaped weapon that carries a bomb	Rockets were fired across the border.	Furthermore, nuclear rockets and missiles should be prohibited.
evp	rocky	adjective	1	C1	with lots of rocks	a rocky beach	The walk around the lake is an extraordinary experience - seeing the majesty of the rocky mountains around the blue surface, which reflects the lights as a mirror, is unforgettable.
evp	rocky	adjective	2	C2	a rocky situation or relationship is difficult or uncertain	Our basketball team's season got off to a rocky start with three straight losses.	Their marriage started to get a bit rocky due to the mother's devotion to finding Mary.
evp	role	noun	1	B1	an actor's part in a film or play	She's got a leading/supporting role in the school play.	My friend Susan got a role in the film.
evp	role	noun	2	B2	the job someone or something has in a particular situation	What is his role in this project?	In fact, computers play an important role in the office.
evp	role model	noun	1	C1	someone you try to behave like because you admire them	Jane is such a good role model for her younger sister.	Pele was voted Athlete of the Century for his outstanding performance and for being such a positive role model for other athletes and youth in general.
evp	romance	noun	1	B1	a close relationship between two people who are in love with each other	Their three-year romance never went smoothly.	I like it very much because it has romance and action, and cats of course.
evp	romantic	adjective	1	B1	relating to feelings of love and affection	a romantic dinner for two	And the atmosphere in the evening is so romantic!
evp	romantic	adjective	2	B1	relating to a story about love	romantic fiction	It is nice romantic comedy. The film starts at 8 o'clock on the evening.
evp	romantic	adjective	3	C2	thinking that things are better than they really are, and that things are possible which are not	a romantic view of the world	
evp	roof	noun	1	A2	the surface that covers the top of a building or vehicle	The house has a flat/shingled roof.	It's an old Charentese house, with white walls, a red roof and a small garden, close to the seaside.
evp	roof	noun	2	C2	somewhere to live	It is hard to keep a roof over your head and food in the fridge when you get paid $8.50 an hour.	As for the new homes for local people it seems to be that it will be of particular importance to homeless people, who will feel that they have a roof over their head without having to pay anything.
evp	roof	noun	3	C2	If the level of something, especially a price, goes through the roof, it increases very quickly.	The price of heating oil has gone through the roof.	Try extreme sports and feel your adrenaline levels going through the roof!
evp	roof	noun	4	C2	to become very angry and start shouting	If I'm late again he'll hit the roof.	Be careful, if you make too much noise he'll hit the roof.
evp	room	noun	1	A1	a part of the inside of a building that is separated from other parts by walls, floor and ceiling	a hotel room	She has a lot of flowers in her room.
evp	room	noun	2	B1	space for things to fit into	Is there enough room for me in the car?	In the wardrobe there is not enough room to put all my stuff away.
evp	room	noun	3	C1	If there is room for improvement, something can be made better.	His work isn't bad but there's still some room for improvement.	She is Polish, aged 29 and can speak English pretty well, but there is still room for improvement, that's why she wants to spend a year in England, looking after children in an English-speaking family.
evp	roommate	noun	1	A2	someone who you share a room, apartment, etc. with	We were roommates our freshman year in college.	Her name is Chiara, she is my roommate since one week ago.
evp	root	noun	1	B2	the part of a plant that grows under the ground and gets water and food from the soil	These plants have really deep roots.	I have gathered over three hundred species: flowers, roots, leaves and others.
evp	root	noun	2	B2	where someone or something originally comes from	the roots of modern jazz	Turin finds its roots in the Roman Empire and many signs of the Roman architecture are visible still nowadays.
evp	root	noun	3	C1	the cause of something, usually something bad	We must get to the root of this problem.	Unfortunately none of us has ever tried to find the root of this problem but the influences that it has on the environment are obvious.
evp	rope	noun	1	B2	very thick string made from twisted thread	We tied the boat to a post with a length of rope.	A few moments later she took out a rope from her backpack.
evp	rope	noun	2	C2	to learn/know how to do a job or activity	I spent a month in the accounts department, learning the ropes.	Knowing the ropes, he did as usual, but one thing was left out.
evp	rose	noun	1	B1	a flower with a pleasant smell and thorns, that grows on a bush	a rose bush	But what attracted my attention even more were the roses, which were lying next to the envelope.
evp	rosy	adjective	1	C2	of a pale red or pink color	rosy cheeks	Not a lot taller than a lot of us, with beautiful blue eyes and rosy cheeks, she used to called us "Muffins."
evp	rosy	adjective	2	C2	very positive and happy	The future looks rosy.	In addition, I can see something in his eyes that says his life is not as rosy as it seems.
evp	rot	verb	1	C2	If vegetable or animal substances rot, they decay, and if something rots them, it makes them decay.	Sugar rots your teeth.	He told me of how he had come to see it every day, and seen how all the meat had rotted away and stuff.
evp	rotten	adjective	1	B2	Rotten vegetable or animal substances are decaying.	rotten eggs/fruit	I'll tell you something - my freezer still smells of rotten fish.
evp	rough	adjective	1	B1	A rough surface is not smooth.	rough ground	I went with some people I know from bike competitions, and I was impressed with how well they can ride a bike on rough terrain, while I had to go carefully in some tracks.
evp	rough	adjective	2	B1	approximate and not exact	Write a rough copy first and check the grammar.	I lost my personal notepad where I used to write all my job tasks, my arrangements and the records of my students. I have even written the rough copy of some personal letters there]
evp	rough	adjective	3	B2	If the sea or weather is rough, there is a lot of strong wind and sometimes rain.	The boat sank in rough waters/seas off the coast of Maine.	I never saw a landscape similar to the Ring of Kerry before: breathtaking views, the rough sea to the right, peaceful gaps to the left - great!
evp	rough	adjective	4	B2	difficult or unpleasant	She's having a rough time at work.	He did the mountain-route last year and he says that even he had a rough time.
evp	rough	adjective	5	C1	dangerous or violent	a rough part of town	If I were able to travel back in History, I would choose to go to France during the French Revolution. I think it would be very interesting to see how people can be really devoted and can fight when they see they are being cheated. I know it was a very rough and dangerous time, but it must have been really exciting.
evp	roughly	adverb	1	B2	approximately	There has been an increase of roughly 2.25 million.	These are very special cases and roughly speaking, confined to one thing.
evp	roughly	adverb	2	C2	forcefully or violently	He pushed us roughly out of the door.	My mother treated me roughly and unkindly by thrashing or smacking me at any time possible.
evp	roughly	adverb	3	C2	without taking a lot of care to make something perfect	Roughly chop the tomatoes and add to the onions.	She glanced at the mirror, roughly brushed her hair with her fingers and went outside for her car.
evp	round	adjective	1	A2	in the shape of a circle or ball	a round hole/stone/table/window	It is on the round table in your room.
evp	round	noun	1	B2	the first/second/third/final, etc. stage in a competition	He was beaten in the first round.	At five o'clock in the afternoon, the second round of the games will begin]
evp	round	noun	2	C2	when people clap	The crowd gave him a huge round of applause.	It was unbelievable, there was a round of applause and some people couldn't help crying.
evp	round	noun	3	C2	drinks for all of the people in a group	Would you like another round?	Rob (her husband) was so happy and in such a splendid mood that he decided to pay for a round of beer.
evp	round	noun	4	C2	a group of events that is part of a series	a round of interviews	My life was an endless round of parties, and social events.
evp	route	noun	1	B1	the roads or paths you follow to get from one place to another place	an escape route	Anyway, my father and I went alone but we joined a group that was following the same route.
evp	route	noun	2	B1	used as part of the name of numbered highways	Route 9	
evp	route	noun	3	C2	a method of achieving something	A college degree is seen by many as the best route to a good job.	This means that only by presenting them with a great variety of opportunities can we be certain that our children will be shaped correctly. Thus, [...] it seems to be the only legitimate and most advantageous route to follow.
evp	routine	noun	1	B1	the things you regularly do and how and when you do them	Getting coffee and a bagel was part of my daily routine.	Usually we speak about our daily routine, and our plans for the future.
evp	routine	adjective	1	C2	boring and regularly done	a routine check/task	Nevertheless, when a job becomes routine (and it usually always does), people seem to reminisce about their student years with a sense of disappointment.
evp	row	noun	1	B1	a straight line of people or things	a row of chairs/houses	Two rows of servants stood beside the path which was in front of him with a red carpet on it.
evp	row	noun	2	B1	a line of seats	to sit in the back/front row	It is great in my class, there are so many people and they are all nice. I'm sitting in the first row next to Nicole.
evp	row	noun	3	B2	one after another without a break	He's just won the tournament for the fifth year in a row.	Maradona was the captain of the team, and since he arrived, the team won three championships in a row.
evp	row	verb	1	B2	to move a boat or move someone in a boat through the water using oars	We rowed to the other side of the lake.	In the end, they had to row all the way back to the beach and it was very late when they got home.
evp	royal	adjective	1	B2	relating to a queen or king and their family	the royal family	Chris, Anne and I wanted to visit the royal palace.
evp	rub	verb	1	B2	to press your hand or a cloth on a surface and move it backward and forward	She rubbed her hands together to warm them.	Paul suddenly saw something. A kind of shadow. He rubbed his eyes but there was nothing.
evp	rub	verb	2	B2	to move a substance backward and forward over a surface so that it covers it and goes into it	I rubbed some suntan oil on my arms.	
evp	rub	verb	3	C2	to upset someone by talking to them about something which you know they want to forget	I know your grades were better than mine - you don't have to rub it in.	Indeed, I wouldn't want to rub it in but you have reached seventy or eighty. I don't think you can fend for yourself.
evp	rubber	noun	1	B2	a strong material that bends easily, originally produced from the juice of a tropical tree, and used to make tires, boots, etc.	shoes with rubber soles	The future fashion for men I think will be suits but still made from recycled materials such as rubber and plastic.
evp	rude	adjective	1	B1	behaving in a way which is not polite and upsets other people	a rude comment/remark	I thought he wa] such a rude man.
evp	rudely	adverb	1	C1	in a way that is not polite	He pushed past us rudely.	When I made an attempt to speak to the conductor, I was rudely told off and told to stay seated for the rest of the trip]
evp	rudeness	noun	1	C1	a manner and attitude that is impolite	I was shocked by her rudeness.	Furthermore, a person who is focused only on his goals will try to show off all his/her abilities, they will try to demonstrate their intelligence and their power to the others sometimes with rudeness and intolerance.
evp	rug	noun	1	B1	a soft piece of material used to cover the floor	My dog loves lying on the rug in front of the fire.	There is a green rug in the middle of the floor.
evp	rugby	noun	1	A2	a sport played by two teams with an oval ball and H-shaped goals	He's a keen rugby fan.	I want to play some rugby and swim in the sea.
evp	ruin	noun	1	B1	the broken remains that are left from an old building after it has been destroyed	Thousands of tourists wander around these ancient ruins every year.	After that I'm going to travel to Luxor and see the ruins.
evp	ruin	noun	2	C1	to be in a very bad state	The city lies in ruins.	When my grandparents were young, Germany lay in ruins.
evp	ruin	noun	3	C2	when someone loses everything such as all their money or their job	The collapse of the bank has left many people in financial ruin.	He started his first business some time ago which led to financial ruin.
evp	ruin	verb	1	B2	to spoil or destroy something completely	They were late and the dinner was ruined.	But she didn't keep her promise and she ruined my life.
evp	rule	noun	1	B1	an official instruction about what you must or must not do	to break
the rules	There're plenty of rules in my high school.
evp	rule	noun	2	B1	a principle of a system, such as a language or science	the rules of grammar	We did a little exam about tenses and grammar rules.
evp	rule	noun	3	B2	the usual way something is	an exception to the rule	As a rule, children who ride bikes change their bikes for cars when they are older and are prepared a little for how to behave on the road.
evp	rule	noun	4	C1	a way of judging something that is not exact but which will help you to be correct enough	As a rule of thumb, you need one egg for every 125g flour.	I think that I'm only one among many that have a diary as their most precious possession, but, as a rule of thumb, I would think that people value objects in terms of how replaceable they are.
evp	rule	noun	5	C2	to allow someone to do something which is not usually allowed	We don't usually let students take books home, but I'll bend the rules on this occasion.	
evp	rule	noun	6	C2	when someone is in control of a country	military rule	A XXth century modernist, not only should he be paid honor for his artistry but also for his never ceasing battle against Franco's rule.
evp	rule	verb	1	B2	to be in control of somewhere, usually a country	They were ruled for many years by the prince.	In the late 60s when Greece was ruled by a military government, many young students fled abroad to escape its cruelty.
evp	rule	verb	2	B2	to influence someone's thoughts or actions	His life is ruled by the demands of his job.	Our Earth has grown overcrowded and every inch of our life is ruled by computers.
evp	rule	verb	3	C1	to be in control of somewhere, usually a country	They were ruled for many years by a dictator.	Cleopatra was the seventh queen of Egypt and ruled until 63 B.C. when she died.
evp	rule	verb	4	C2	to decide or state that something is impossible or will not happen, or that something or someone is not suitable	It’s unlikely that he’ll run for president, but you can never rule anything out.	Owning a house no longer seems to be a practical future plan and has to be ruled out, which meant that people lost their ultimate goal for working.
evp	ruler	noun	1	A2	a flat, straight stick which is used to measure things	Can I borrow your ruler?	We have to bring with us a pencil and a ruler for the first lesson.
evp	ruler	noun	2	C1	the leader of a country	He was the ruler of the country for over 20 years.	Versailles in France and the time of Louis XIV as the ruler would be my place and time I would choose to visit.
evp	ruling	noun	1	C2	an official legal decision, usually made by a judge	The Supreme Court decided not to review the lower court’s ruling.	As you certainly will remember, the ruling of the High Court obliges you to keep the level of noise below a certain level depending on the distance of the airport.
evp	rumor	noun	1	B2	information that a lot of people are talking about although they do not know if it is true	Rumors about teacher layoffs are circulating at school.	He owned an inn called Jamaica but nobody would go there anymore due to some strange rumors.
evp	run	verb	1	A1	to move on your feet at a faster speed than walking	He can run very fast.	Children can run everywhere.
evp	run	verb	2	B1	to organize or control something	She ran her own restaurant for five years.	My aunt is always working. She runs her own business.
evp	run	verb	3	B2	If trains or buses are running, they are available to travel on.	Trains are still running, despite the snow.	There is an easy way to get to the college: a service bus runs every 15 minutes, and the journey takes only 20 minutes.
evp	run	verb	4	B2	If liquid runs somewhere, it flows.	Tears ran down her face.	Tears ran down my cold cheek as my numb fingers opened the envelope.
evp	run	verb	5	B2	If you run a computer program, you use it on your computer.	Did you run a virus check this morning?	At this point the computer is unable to run any program.
evp	run	verb	6	C1	If a piece of equipment is running, it is switched on and working, and if you run it, you switch it on and make it work.	She left the engine running while she went into the store.	The dish washer was delivered in time and installed as well, though we could not actually run the machine at that time.
evp	run	verb	7	C1	to publish something in a newspaper or magazine	All the papers are running this story on the front page.	If we run a story on "HIV Symptoms" we could have a very successful first issue.
evp	run	verb	8	C2	to try to get elected	Kutukas ran unsuccessfully for sheriff.	In addition, I would like to suggest that aspects of his life when he was running for mayor should be included in the form of a speech by himself.
evp	run	verb	9	C2	to move something along/over/through, etc., something else	She ran her fingers through her hair.	The manly figure that had tried to stop her now kneeled before her body running his finger through her soft blond hair.
evp	run	verb	10	C2	to be at a particular level	Inflation is now running at 5.8%.	According to the official data, unemployment is running at so high a level that it is even possible that the unemployed will rebel against the government.
evp	run	verb	11	C2	If something makes your blood run cold, it frightens you very much.	I heard a tapping on the window which made my blood run cold.	This thought scared me and made my blood run cold.
evp	run	verb	12	C2	to do something although something bad might happen because of it	I think I'll run the risk of hurting her feelings, and tell her the truth.	They constantly run the risk of losing their physical abilities.
evp	run	verb	13	C2	If someone, especially a child, runs wild, they behave as they want to and no one controls them.	Their nine-year-old son is left to run wild.	My parents decided to move to a small village when I was just a kid. Shortly after we settled in] my parents decided that I was running wild and that it was time for me to receive some sort of education.
evp	run	verb	14	C2	If someone's imagination runs wild, they are not able to control their thoughts.	It was getting dark and my imagination was starting to run wild.	Her imagination started to run wild and she began to think about the dark corridors, the secret passages and the obscure dungeons that the castle might hide.
evp	run	verb	15	C2	to be very busy doing a lot of different things	I'm exhausted, I've been running around all morning.	Nowadays people are running around trying to save time wherever they can, when in reality time passes far quicker when we try to save it.
evp	run	verb	16	B2	to secretly leave a place because you are unhappy there	She ran away from home at the age of 13.	At the age of fourteen, she ran away from home.
evp	run	verb	17	C1	to criticize someone or something, often unfairly	Whatever the government do, the press will always run them down.	But it's not fair to run down my country's past achievements.
evp	run	verb	18	B2	to accidentally hit something while you are driving a vehicle	He lost control of the car and ran into a tree.	I had tried to stop my car next to the road but I ran into a signpost.
evp	run	verb	19	B2	to meet someone that you know when you did not expect to meet them	I ran into Harry on the train.	We ran into an old friend of mine and we decided to have a coffee together.
evp	run	verb	20	C1	If a machine runs on a supply of power, it uses that power to work.	My laptop is running on battery power.	Public transport will be quick and free, and run on electric power, so there won't be car pollution.
evp	run	verb	21	B1	to finish, use or sell all of something, so that there is none left	I've run out of money/ideas/patience.	Well, I have run out of time, so I have to stop writing.
evp	run	verb	22	B2	If a supply of something runs out, all of it has been used or it is completely finished.	We've run out of milk.	In addition, if you are at home and something you need has run out or broken, you can go to buy it at any time.
evp	run	verb	23	B2	to hit someone or something with a vehicle and drive over them, injuring or killing them	He was run over by a bus.	After a while, his father vanished and a car ran over John and killed him.
evp	run	verb	24	C2	to repeat something in order to practice it or to make sure that it is correct	I just need to run through my talk.	
evp	run	verb	25	C2	If you run up against problems or difficulties, you begin to experience them.	The plan for the park ran up against strong local opposition.	After running up against a lot of difficulties we managed to reach our hotel.
evp	run	noun	1	B1	when you move on your feet at a speed faster than walking, especially for exercise	We go for a three-mile run every evening after work.	Walking is recognized as good exercise, or going for a run.
evp	run	noun	2	B2	in baseball or cricket, a single point	They scored three runs in the ninth inning to win the game.	I liked the competition because both the teams played well and they scored good runs.
evp	run	noun	3	B2	at a time that is far away in the future	It seems a lot of effort but I'm sure it's the best solution in the long run.	It costs a lot of money, but in the long run, it is worth it]
evp	run	noun	4	C2	to suddenly run fast in order to escape from somewhere	When he saw the open door, he made a run for it.	Anna and Tom decided to make a run for it.
evp	run	noun	5	C2	when something happens several times without something different happening during that period	a run of 10 games without a win	Strange though it may seem, he achieved success in every possible field not owing to a run of good luck, but thanks to his outstanding qualities.
evp	runner	noun	1	A2	someone who runs, especially in competitions	a long-distance runner	The former is the fastest man in the world, the latter is a very famous long-distance runner.
evp	running	noun	1	A2	the sport of moving on your feet at a speed faster than walking	I go running three times a week.	My hobbies are reading and running.
evp	running	noun	2	C2	the activity of controlling or looking after something	The running of a large household is not easy.	Electricity is an essential requirement now in the day-to-day running of businesses and life in general compared to the early nineteenth century.
evp	running	adverb	1	C2	If something happens for the second/third, etc., day/week, etc., running, it happens on that number of regular occasions without changing.	He's won the Championship for the fifth year running.	Fourteen days running of laziness and sleep without tight-scheduled meetings or rush-hour traffic jams lurking.
evp	running	adjective	1	C1	If a building has running water, water comes into it through pipes.	The summer homes on the island have no running water.	It is hilarious to think that at the same time people in the north of Europe were still living a primitive and uncivilized life not even able to invent an axe, the Romans managed to install running water in their huge houses.
evp	runway	noun	1	C1	a large road that aircraft use to land on or to start flying from	The runway was covered with snow.	The problem hit the headlines when a small Soviet aircraft missed the runway and touched down on a road exploding in two pieces and damaging many cars and the people sitting inside.
evp	rural	adjective	1	B2	relating to the country and not to cities or towns	The area is still very rural and undeveloped.	I live in a rural area far from any village, town, or city.
evp	rush	verb	1	B2	to hurry or move quickly somewhere, or to make someone or something hurry or move quickly somewhere	We had to rush to catch the bus.	I rushed to Tom's house, and when I reached it, he received me with a weird smile on his face.
evp	rush	verb	2	B2	to do something quickly and enthusiastically	His friends rushed to congratulate him after the ceremony.	I was very happy and rushed to talk to them.
evp	rush	verb	3	C1	to make someone do something more quickly than they want to do it	I refuse to be rushed into making a decision.	It has always been very busy but these days people seem to have a harder time facing the fact that not everything can be rushed.
evp	rush	verb	4	C1	to start doing something without thinking about it enough first	I rushed into marriage when I was much too young.	I also have bad sides which are that I'm stubborn sometimes and rush into things.
evp	rush	noun	1	B2	when you have to hurry or move somewhere quickly	Slow down! What's the rush?	That's because we are always stressed and always in a rush.
evp	rush	noun	2	C2	a lot of things happening or a lot of people trying to do something	There was amad rush to get tickets for the concert.	She is that sort of a person who prefers to have more time on her hands so as to avoid the last-minute rush.
evp	rush	noun	3	C2	when something suddenly moves somewhere quickly	a rush of air	To conclude, I believe that sports activities, apart from providing us with a sense of freedom and a rush of adrenaline, make us accomplished human beings.
evp	rush hour	noun	1	B2	the time when a lot of people are traveling to or from work and so roads and trains are very busy	the morning/evening rush hour	During rush hours, you often see cars lined up with just one person inside, each car polluting the environment.
evp	rusty	adjective	1	B2	Rusty metal has rust on its surface.	a rusty car/nail	It was very rusty but I repainted it and now it looks like a new bike.
evp	rusty	adjective	2	B2	If a skill you had is now rusty, it is no longer good because you have forgotten it.	My French is a bit rusty.	However, I am rather "rusty" at using the morse code as well as using the codes of communication.
evp	ruthless	adjective	1	C2	not caring if you hurt or upset other people when you try to get what you want	ruthless ambition	As a result, the competition has become ruthless and severe.
evp	sack	noun	1	C1	a large bag made of paper, plastic, or cloth and used to carry or store things	a burlap/plastic sack	The worst thing was with tra]sh which wasn't collected. People in the area] special groups, used big bags and sacks to gather it.
evp	sacred	adjective	1	C1	relating to a religion or considered to be holy	sacred music	It is a volcanic island which has been enshrined as a sacred place.
evp	sacred	adjective	2	C2	too important to be changed or destroyed	I don't work on weekends - my private time is sacred.	The old sweatshop has no appeal, and even many well-paid extra hours are rejected in order to preserve one's most sacred thing: free time.
evp	sacrifice	noun	1	C1	something valuable that you give up in order to achieve something or help someone, or the act of giving it up	We had to make sacrifices in order to pay for our children's education.	It's a small sacrifice but I think that it will serve him well in the long run.
evp	sacrifice	verb	1	C1	to give up something that is valuable to you in order to achieve something or help someone	Many women sacrifice interesting careers for their family.	We are very proud of our low costs [...], a pleasing fact primarily based upon a large number of volunteers who sacrifice their spare time in our organisation.
evp	sad	adjective	1	A1	unhappy or making you feel unhappy	I've just received some very sad news.	We like this park because there are a lot of place to walk, and play. In England I'[ve] not found a similar place, so I'm sad.
evp	sad	adjective	2	C1	used to say that it is unfortunate or embarrassing that something is true	Sad to say, the violin was never found.	Sad to say, there are many points in your report we do not agree with, as pointed by my friend Maria Jones as well.
evp	sadden	verb	1	C2	to make someone feel sad or disappointed	We were saddened by his death.	They have a right to be consulted about their future: nothing saddens me more than a father sending his son (who dreams about becoming a painter) to the School of Law because that is "the best for him" or "that's what I always wanted to do" or, the worst of all, "you will study such-and-such because I say so!"
evp	saddle	noun	1	C2	a leather seat that you put on a horse so that you can ride it	Can you help me fasten the saddle?	I didn't like to use a saddle, I just put a sheep skin on the back of my horse and jumped on it.
evp	saddle	verb	1	C2	to put a saddle on a horse	We saddled our horses and rode off.	I had to climb to my father's shoulders to see the horses, and then realized that they hadn't been saddled.
evp	saddle	verb	2	C2	to give someone a job or problem which will cause them a lot of work or difficulty	We're saddled with a lot of debt.	People go on shopping sprees and are then saddled with huge credit card bills.
evp	sadly	adverb	1	B2	in an unhappy way	"He's gone away for six months," she said sadly.	Alice quickly got in the car and waved sadly at her parents while Natalie drove off.
evp	sadly	adverb	2	B2	in a way that is not satisfactory	Sadly, the treatment doesn't work for all patients.	Some forms of entertainment which were popular decades ago have, sadly, disappeared.
evp	sadness	noun	1	B2	being sad	Her sadness at her grandfather's death was obvious.	What can be more real that when your lover is gone or taken away, your own soul is also alone, bitter and dark and there is nothing else than feelings of revenge, anger, frustration and sadness?
evp	safe	adjective	1	A1	not in danger or likely to be harmed	In some cities you don't feel safe going out alone at night.	I like this place because I feel safe there.
evp	safe	adjective	2	A2	not dangerous or likely to cause harm	a safe driver	Have a safe journey, and I will meet you at the Airport.
evp	safe	adjective	3	B1	not harmed or damaged	She said that all the hostages were safe.	Suddenly I felt something strange near me, I turned back quickly and two men were there. They showed me their weapons. Then, I woke up safe in my bed.
evp	safe	adjective	4	C1	not involving much risk	Salmon is a safe choice  - most people like it.	On the other hand, I could have chosen to stay in my town and start at the University. It would be the recommended and most appropriate choice. I would get my degree and start a normal and safe career.
evp	safe	adjective	5	C1	If it is safe to say something, you are sure it is correct.	I think it's safe to say that he'll be the next president.	It is probably safe to say that there are no good books about engineering written in Portuguese so my teachers always use books written in English.
evp	safe	adjective	6	C1	a place where something will not be lost or stolen	It's very valuable so put it somewhere safe.	Don't show off your money but keep it in a safe place.
evp	safe	adjective	7	C1	being cared for or dealt with by someone skilled	The project is in safe hands - Jan has lots of experience.	He has also been trained as a lifeguard so the residents of your hotel would probably be in safe hands.
evp	safe	adjective	8	C2	completely safe and without injury or damage	After three days lost in the mountains, all the climbers arrived home safe and sound.	So, by the time you read this letter I'll probably be safe and sound in Liverpool.
evp	safe	adjective	9	C2	something that you are certain will happen	Wheeler is a safe bet for a place on the team.	Automatically, we think that black is a safe bet for any occasion.
evp	safely	adverb	1	B1	in a safe way	We all arrived safely.	My friend has come back safely and now a new life starts for him]
evp	safety	noun	1	B2	the state of being safe, or a place or situation where someone or something is safe	food/road safety	We heard from the news, all the disasters that the hurricane "Gilbert" had left while passing by in other States of Mexico. We were really worried about our safety.
evp	safety	noun	2	C1	how safe something is	Safety at the factory has been improved.	Safety regulations: Ten years ago, regulations on working did not exist.
evp	sail	verb	1	B1	to control a boat that has no engine and is pushed by the wind	He sailed the dinghy up the river.	First of all, we are going to the beach where some sailors are going to teach us how to sail.
evp	sail	verb	2	B1	to travel somewhere on a boat or a ship	We sailed to New York.	You know, I've got a boat and if you want, we will be able to spend five days on it. We will sail to the Channel Islands (Jersey, Guernsey, Sark...) .
evp	sail	verb	3	B2	When a boat or a ship sails, it travels on the water.	The ship was sailing to China.	I started the film and we could all see a ship sailing towards the camera.
evp	sail	noun	1	C2	a large piece of material that is fixed to a pole on a boat to catch the wind and make the boat move	Our boat has a yellow sail.	Surrounded by swooping birds and the distant moos of the cows, the billowing sails would send us off with the wind.
evp	sail	noun	2	C2	to start a trip on a boat or ship	We set sail for home the next day.	What made things turn from gray to black was that soon after my return I was invited to set sail to the Spanish islands.
evp	sailing	noun	1	A2	a sport using boats with sails	a sailing boat	She wants to show me how to do canoeing and sailing.
evp	sailor	noun	1	B1	someone who sails ships or boats as their job or as a sport	Over 100 sailors took part in the race.	He is a sailor.
evp	saint	noun	1	C1	a dead person who has been officially respected by the Christian church for living their life in a holy way	Catherine of Siena was made a saint in 1461.	They were originally a mixture of a pagan and a religious feast related to the worshipping of two saints: St Antony in Lisbon and St. John in Porto.
evp	salad	noun	1	A2	a cold mixture of vegetables that usually have not been cooked, sometimes eaten with meat, cheese, etc.	a salad bowl	What about a vegetable salad, [...] fried potatoes and chicken with beer?
evp	salary	noun	1	B1	a fixed amount of money that you receive from your employer, usually every month	an annual salary of $50,000	It was my boss who said "I'm in Australia, and I can't read my e-mail, the server at work crashed. Please repair it today and I will double your salary."
evp	salesman	noun	1	B1	someone whose job is selling things	I asked the salesman for advice.	Sad to say, I have not applied for it again but I did apply for another job as a salesman.
evp	salesperson	noun	1	A2	someone whose job is selling things in a store	She's a salesperson at a book store.	In my previous job, I was a salesperson, where I used to deal with many, many people and I can guarantee my skill to manage with people is extraordinarily good and I am prepared to work under pressure.
evp	saleswoman	noun	1	B1	someone whose job is selling things	The saleswoman showed me the car.	Many years ago, when I was seventeen, I was working as a saleswoman for a printer.
evp	salmon	noun	1	B1	a large, silver fish, or the pink meat of this fish	fresh/smoked/canned salmon	My favorite restaurant is Pampa Grill. My favorite food there is the salmon, it's delicious.
evp	salon	noun	1	B1	a place where women have their hair cut and put in a style	a beauty/hair salon	So I want to take a beauty course because I've got my own beauty salon.
evp	salt	noun	1	A1	a white substance used to add flavor to food	salt and pepper	But before, you put on the top of the chicken salt and pepper or a piece of bacon.
evp	salty	adjective	1	B2	tasting of or containing salt	Is the soup too salty?	On the other hand, the Western one gave good service but the food was oily and salty.
evp	sample	noun	1	B2	a small number of people from a larger group that is being tested or considered	a random sample of voters	This report is based on a sample of over 50 students.
evp	sample	noun	2	B2	a small amount of something that shows you what it is like	a free sample of chocolate	
evp	sample	noun	3	C2	a small amount of a substance that a doctor or scientist collects in order to examine it	a blood/urine sample	He had taken blood samples, listened to her lungs and heart but nothing seemed to be wrong with her apart from the fact that she couldn't move her legs.
evp	sample	verb	1	C2	to experience a place or an activity, often for the first time	an opportunity to sample the local night life	Having said that, the recent recession in Japan has caused a drop in prices and I consider this is the best time to set up a new program to send students to Japan to allow them to sample the culture and brush up their language ability.
evp	sanction	noun	1	C2	a punishment for not obeying a rule or a law	economic/trade sanctions against a country	The war effort and the US sanctions have led the economy to distress too.
evp	sand	noun	1	B1	a substance that is found on beaches and in deserts, which is made from very small grains of rock	a grain of sand	We got to a beautiful beach. The sand looked like gold.
evp	sandal	noun	1	B1	a light shoe with straps that you wear in warm weather	a pair of sandals	In summer, I wear skirts and sandals.
evp	sandwich	noun	1	A1	two slices of bread with meat, cheese, etc. between them	a tuna/cheese sandwich	You can make a quick snack, for example a sandwich.
evp	sandy	adjective	1	B1	covered with or containing sand	a sandy beach	We have no mountains in Lithuania, but we have sandy beaches at the seaside.
evp	sane	adjective	1	C2	not suffering from mental illness	Psychiatrists pronounced her sane.	On these occasions I would yell at him for no reason at all and my family started wondering whether I was completely sane.
evp	sarcastic	adjective	1	C2	using sarcasm	a sarcastic comment/remark	I want to learn how to be more assertive, find emotional independence, fulfill my dreams, be more tolerant, less sarcastic and, most importantly be given the precious gift of patience.
evp	satellite	noun	1	B2	a piece of equipment that is sent into space around the Earth to receive and send signals or to collect information	The World Cup was transmitted around the world by satellite.	To balance this, technology has developed a lot in the last decades and now people can have wild animals inside their homes, even though they may be locked up on a CD-Rom or coming in a wave format through the satellite dish.
evp	satisfaction	noun	1	B2	a pleasant feeling that you get when you receive something you wanted, or when you have done something you wanted to do	She looked at the finished painting with satisfaction.	Whatever it is] it must give us satisfaction.
evp	satisfaction	noun	2	C2	as well as someone wants	He won't get paid until he completes the job to my satisfaction.	However, I do hope that you will settle this matter to everybod[y’]s satisfaction within a couple of days.
evp	satisfactorily	adverb	1	C1	in a satisfactory way	I'm sure these problems can be satisfactorily resolved.	Some of the students were not happy with the type of job they had or with the people they lived with, but the purpose for which they went there was satisfactorily accomplished as the students reached most of the goals that took them to follow this plan.
evp	satisfactory	adjective	1	B2	good enough	We hope very much to find a satisfactory  solution to the problem.	The service is satisfactory.
evp	satisfied	adjective	1	B1	pleased because you have got what you wanted, or because something has happened in the way that you wanted	Some people are never satisfied!	I must say that I'm very satisfied with the club]
evp	satisfied	adjective	2	C1	If you are satisfied that something is true, you believe it.	The judge was satisfied that she was telling the truth.	I suppose that is only because they are satisfied that other people than the British can strike. Well, you don't need to worry! [The] following has happened; about 20% of the Swedish nurses have been striking.
evp	satisfy	verb	1	B2	to please someone by giving them what they want or need	They have 31 flavors of ice cream - enough to satisfy everyone!	But how can anyone satisfy a wealthy woman like her without giving her an expensive present?
evp	satisfy	verb	2	C1	to have or provide something that is needed or wanted	She satisfies all the requirements for the job.	In general, the conference satisfied my needs.
evp	Saturday	noun	1	A1	the day of the week after Friday and before Sunday	He's leaving on Saturday.	There is a swimming pool, so I go there every Saturday after lunch.
evp	sauce	noun	1	A2	a thick hot or cold liquid eaten with food to add flavor	a hot/sweet sauce	It will be rice and chicken with a sweet and sour sauce, so if you want you can bring some wine.
evp	saucer	noun	1	B1	a small plate that you put under a cup	a cup and saucer	
evp	sausage	noun	1	A2	a mixture of meat and spices pressed into a long tube	fried/grilled sausages	They usually prepare traditional Polish food like cabbage with mushrooms and sausages.
evp	save	verb	1	A2	to keep money so that you can buy something with it in the future	Michael's saving up for a new computer.	I had to save a lot of money.
evp	save	verb	2	A2	to keep something to use in the future	I've saved some food for you.	If you don't mind, please save it for me until I come your house at 8:30 p.m.
evp	save	verb	3	A2	to make sure that a computer keeps information that you have put on it	Make sure you save your files regularly.	I need my laptop because I saved my school project o] it.
evp	save	verb	4	B1	to prevent time, money or effort being wasted or spent	You'll save time if you take the car.	If both schools are similar, you should choose the one nearest to your new house, in order that you save money and time.
evp	save	verb	5	B1	to stop someone or something from being killed, injured or destroyed	Wearing seat belts has saved many lives.	We watched a movie called "Men in Black II" and it was about two guys that save the world from alien attacks.
evp	save	verb	6	C1	to help someone avoid having to do something	We'll eat in a restaurant - it'll save you having to cook.	Building a new supermarket along with a multi-storey car park will save city dwellers from having to travel to the suburbs to buy what they need.
evp	savings	noun	1	B2	the money that you keep in a bank or similar financial organization	He spent all his savings on an expensive car.	I also spent all my savings o] executive-looking clothes.
evp	savings	noun	2	C1	an amount of money you save because you were able to spend less	You can renew your membership now for only $40, a savings of 20%.	“Switching off lights when not required at home” can make a big difference if everyone follows it. Not only just because it gives personal savings, but it also contributes to decreasing global warming.
evp	say	verb	1	A1	to speak words	"I'd like to go home," she said.	When I['m] speaking in class, I'm very nervous and I can't say anything.
evp	say	verb	2	B1	to tell someone about a fact, thought, or opinion	Did she say where she was going?	Dear Mary, You asked me in your last letter about my bedroom. There aren't a lot of things to say about it, it is quite small but nice.
evp	say	verb	3	B1	to give information in writing, numbers or signs	My watch says 3 o'clock.	Well yesterday I was reading a new fashion magazine. It says that this summer the best clothes to wear are skirts with different colors!
evp	say	verb	4	B1	to think or believe	People/They say (that) he's over 100.	People say that it never rains here.
evp	say	verb	5	B2	used to show that many people believe something about something	Drinking plenty of water is said to be good for your skin.	On our way around the lake we would have the possibility of visiting a huge medieval castle which is said to be haunted.
evp	say	verb	6	B2	If something goes without saying, it is obvious or generally accepted.	It goes without saying that you should arrive on time.	It goes without saying that I will participate!
evp	say	verb	7	C1	to think something but not speak	"I hope she likes me," he said to himself.	I remember saying to myself that "this little boy will survive" and after that I felt totally cool and calm and did what had to be done.
evp	say	verb	8	C1	used to remind someone that you said this earlier	Like I said, I’m not interested in buying insurance at the moment.	I wonder if it's not too late for my own little munchkins. Like I said, they already love to SHOP!
evp	say	verb	9	C1	used to say that it is unfortunate or embarrassing that something is true	Sad to say, the violin was never found.	Sad to say, there are many points in your report we do not agree with, as pointed out by my friend Maria Jones as well.
evp	say	verb	10	C1	used to emphasize that you could have said something in a much stronger way	We were surprised, to say the least.	You get slightly bored, to say the least.
evp	say	verb	11	C1	as you would expect	Needless to say, it rained the whole time we were there.	Needless to say, bribes are a frequent occurrence.
evp	say	verb	12	C1	used to say that something seems like a good idea but it would be difficult to do	I want to ask her out, but it's easier said than done.	I know it's easier said than done but you have to try.
evp	say	verb	13	C1	If it is safe to say something, you are sure it is correct.	I think it's safe to say that he'll be the next president.	It is probably safe to say that there are no good books about engineering written in Portuguese so my teachers always use books written in English.
evp	say	verb	14	C2	used to emphasize other problems you have not talked about	Most wild otters have disappeared from populated areas, to say nothing of wilderness areas.	Indeed would not it be an oversimplification to make one's judgement of the country's national character on the grounds of the amount and the quality of food people eat, to say nothing of the fact that this judgement is usually highly subjective?
evp	saying	noun	1	C2	a famous phrase that people use to give advice about life	Have you heard the saying "Don't count your chickens before they're hatched"?	But as the saying goes "Time flies when you are having fun".
evp	scale	noun	1	B2	the size or level of something	We don't yet know the scale of the problem.	He leads an evil trade: they carry out smuggling on a grand scale and use the inn as a store.
evp	scale	noun	2	B2	a set of numbers, amounts, etc., used to measure or compare the level of something	the Centigrade/Fahrenheit scale	In brief, I think it would be a very good idea to create a new scale of salaries based on our needs, in which doctors would be higher than professional footballer player]s
evp	scale	noun	3	B2	how the size of things on a map, model, etc. relates to the same things in real life	a scale of 1:50 000	My friend gave me a 1/72 scale kit of "Supermarine Spitfire" for my birthday.
evp	scale	noun	4	B2	a piece of equipment for measuring weight	A kitchen/bathroom scale	
evp	scan	verb	1	C1	to use a piece of equipment that copies words or pictures from paper into a computer	to scan photos into a computer	Instead of drawing some of our customers documents we will just scan them.
evp	scan	verb	2	C1	to quickly read a piece of writing to understand the main meaning or to find a particular piece of information	I scanned the travel brochures looking for a cheap vacation.	So, I suggest that you buy a newspaper called "The Loot," sit down with a strong cup of coffee and scan it.
evp	scan	verb	3	C2	to look around an area quickly to try to find a person or thing	She scanned the crowd for a familiar face.	She looked at Lisa: her restless eyes were scanning the room while her thin fingers were tapping on the table.
evp	scan	noun	1	C2	a medical examination in which an image of the inside of the body is made using a special machine	a brain scan	John went with Sophie for a scan[;] John was hoping for a boy and Sophie for a girl.
evp	scandal	noun	1	B2	something that shocks people because they think it is morally wrong	a financial/political scandal	Among them are the increasingly popular reality shows and all the daily news about gossip and scandal.
evp	scar	noun	1	B2	a permanent mark left on the body from a cut or other injury	an ugly scar	David is a tall man with black curly hair, black eyes, a big nose, a beard and a scar on his neck.
evp	scar	noun	2	C1	damage done to a person's mind by a very unpleasant event or situation	a psychological scar	A person who has been affluent since childhood might be said to not have the emotional scars of experiencing poverty during childhood and might be able to look at the world, and to the life as an adult, in a positive and constructive way.
evp	scar	verb	1	C2	to cause a scar	He was scarred for life by the accident.	
evp	scarce	adjective	1	C1	rare or not available in large amounts	scarce resources	In the context of Singapore, where land is scarce and widening or building of more roads is just not feasible, we have no choice but to choose what is best for everyone.
evp	scarcely	adverb	1	C2	only just	They had scarcely finished eating when the doorbell rang.	Scarcely had the ferry reached the shore than the heavy storm abated.
evp	scarcity	noun	1	C2	when there is not enough of something	a scarcity of food/affordable housing	With a scarcity of supplies and long training hours, wealthy children will then learn not to take things for granted.
evp	scare	verb	1	C1	to frighten a person or animal	Sudden, loud noises scare me.	You may think that Universal Video has gone mad: re-editing those old-fashioned horror movies that couldn't even scare your 6-year-old sister!
evp	scare	verb	2	C2	to make someone feel very frightened	You scared the life out of me, creeping up on me like that!	Such gory details scared the living daylights out of each parent in town and, soon after the second dead girl was found, one Mary Joe Chavez, supposedly another high-school genius, a state of emergency was proclaimed and a thorough investigation followed, proving to be in vain, despite all the effort put into it.
evp	scare	verb	3	C1	to make a person or an animal so frightened that they go away	She scared off her attacker by screaming.	For example, in the Ionian Islands, people break pots on Friday night in order to scare away evil spirits.
evp	scare	verb	4	C1	to make someone worried about doing something or going somewhere so that they decide not to do it or go there	The recent bomb attacks have scared away the tourists.	During the dance display and horse show we actually did experience some rainfall, however it was a small shower and it didn't manage to scare off the people and to prevent the organizers from reaching their main goal.
evp	scared	adjective	1	B1	frightened or worried	He's scared of spiders.	When I came for the first time to my new English class I was a little bit scared.
evp	scarf	noun	1	A2	a piece of cloth that you wear around your neck, head, or shoulders to keep warm or for decoration	a silk/wool scarf	And my sister gave me a scarf too.
evp	scary	adjective	1	B1	frightening	a scary movie/story	It was quite exciting but a little scary.
evp	scattered	adjective	1	C2	covering a wide area	His toys were scattered all over the floor.	Nowadays, families are scattered in all the parts of world, for example, my husband's family is in Australia[,] so our wedding provided me a chance to spend time with his family and learn about their family traditions.
evp	scenario	noun	1	C2	a description of a situation, or of a situation that may develop in the future	There are several possible scenarios.	This is a common scenario in developed countries, but third world countries have to deal with another type of homeless person.
evp	scene	noun	1	B1	a short part of a film, play, or book in which the events happen in one place	the party/wedding scene	If you haven't seen any of these three "Star Wars" movies, I suggest you do see them tonight or tomorrow. They are great, with a lot of action scenes.
evp	scene	noun	2	B2	a view or picture of a place, event, or activity	Lowry painted street scenes.	I like especially the scene of the garden with snow in winter.
evp	scene	noun	3	B2	a place where an unpleasant event has happened	He was convicted of leaving the scene of an accident.	She managed to recreate the scene of the crime, saying that she had swallowed a fish bone.
evp	scene	noun	4	B2	all the things connected with a particular way of life or activity	She's well known on the jazz scene.	Great Britain has his own comic scene and it would be a good idea to meet them and talk with them about all their comics and they could write me and other German collectors.
evp	scene	noun	5	C2	when people have a loud argument or show strong emotions in a public place	She made a scene when I told her she couldn't come with us.	She didn't cry, she didn't scream, she didn't make a scene.
evp	scene	noun	6	C2	If something happens behind the scenes, it happens secretly.	A lot of hard work has been going on behind the scenes.	Ms. Bolam knew a lot of things going on behind the scenes, which were not known to the patients.
evp	scenery	noun	1	B1	the attractive, natural things that you see outdoors in the country	beautiful/breathtaking/spectacular scenery	I really enjoyed the scenery because near our tent there was a tiny waterfall; in front of our campsite there was a forest-that we explored; near us there was a big blue lake and some mountains at the back.
evp	scenic	adjective	1	C1	having views of the attractive, natural things in the countryside	a scenic route	France is an area of great scenic beauty, famous for its excellent cooking and wine.
evp	scent	noun	1	B2	a pleasant smell	the sweet scent of orange blossom	Flowers are in bloom and their scent triggers my romantic mood.
evp	schedule	noun	1	A2	a list of the times and days of classes at a school, college, etc.	The first class on the schedule for Monday morning is history.	My school schedule next Tuesday has changed and I haven't got time at 3:00 pm.
evp	schedule	noun	2	B1	a list of times when buses, trains, etc. arrive and leave	Do you have a New York to Chicago train schedule that I could borrow?	After the concert many people lost their way home, mostly foreigners who didn't know the buses' schedule.
evp	schedule	noun	3	B2	a plan that gives events or activities and the times that they will happen or be done	I have a very busy schedule today.	So, it started at 1:30 but it was on schedule.
evp	schedule	verb	1	B2	to arrange that an event or activity will happen at a particular time	The meeting has been scheduled for tomorrow afternoon.	My flight is scheduled to arrive at the airport at 10 o'clock in the morning.
evp	scheduled	adjective	1	B2	planned to happen at a particular time or on a particular date	This program will be broadcast half an hour later than originally scheduled.	The scheduled time for the arrival is 5:15 pm.
evp	scheduled	adjective	2	B2	traveling at a regular time each day or week	a scheduled flight	
evp	scheme	noun	1	B2	a plan for doing or organizing something	The committee came up with a creative fund-raising scheme.	[W]hat really helped me was my scheme to lessen pollution in the wild environment, and with that me and my colleagues succeed in cutting down pollution, in the main rivers and fields around the city.
evp	scholar	noun	1	C2	a college or university student who has been given a scholarship or chosen for a special honor or program	Rhodes/Fulbright scholars	This determination to succeed of the children from less-[well]-to-do families, can be seen from the scholarship recipients each year in Thailand. [The] majority of the recipients come from less-[well]-to-do families, and it is very uncommon to see a scholar from a wealthy family.
evp	scholar	noun	2	C1	someone who has studied a subject and knows a lot about it	a classics/history scholar	In the old days a scholar could spend years of his life in search of specific information, which now can be easily and inexpensively found at the click of a button!
evp	scholarship	noun	1	C1	an amount of money given to a person by an organization to pay for their education	She got a scholarship to the college.	In addition, is there any scholarship or financial support provided for students to apply for]
evp	school	noun	1	A1	a place where children go to be educated	an elementary/secondary school	I don't like going to school by bus.
evp	school	noun	2	A2	the time that you spend at school	before/after school	We met before school at 8 o'clock in the morning.
evp	school	noun	3	A2	a place where you can study a particular subject	She goes to an acting school on Saturdays.	I went to the dance school in our town.
evp	school	noun	4	B1	a college or university, or a part of a college or university where students study a particular subject	She's in graduate school now.	
evp	schoolchild	noun	1	A2	a child who goes to school	The morning bus is usually full of schoolchildren.	To schoolchildren: I want to sell my two-year-old red bike.
evp	schooling	noun	1	C2	education at school	Jack didn't receive much formal schooling.	Throughout my schooling I felt that school was a chore, a necessary evil, if you will.
evp	science	noun	1	A2	the study and knowledge of the structure and behavior of natural things in an organized way	a science class	You can study math and science.
evp	science	noun	2	B1	a particular type of science	computer science	In my class, there were 15 girls and 15 boys, who were studying computer science with me, so I knew everybody.
evp	science fiction	noun	1	B1	stories about life in the future or in other parts of the universe	She is a well-known science fiction writer.	Also, I like to watch fantasy and science fiction films.
evp	scientific	adjective	1	B1	relating to science, or using the organized methods of science	a scientific discovery/experiment/theory	Sometimes I read also magazines, especially scientific magazines like Focus and newspapers when I have breakfast in the morning while before to go to bed I like reading comics of Mickey Mouse.
evp	scientifically	adverb	1	B2	using scientific methods	scientifically proven	It is scientifically proven and well-known that the gas releas]e by cars is toxic and quite dangerous to the environment - e]speciall to the ozone layer.
evp	scientist	noun	1	B1	someone who studies science or works in science	Scientists are working to create a vaccine for the disease.	NASA admitted yesterday they will send a group of highly trained scientists to Mars in the next two years.
evp	scissors	noun	1	A2	a tool for cutting paper, hair, cloth, etc. that you hold in your hand and that has two blades that move against each other	a pair of scissors	We have to bring scissors, a pencil and a ruler.
evp	scooter	noun	1	A2	a small motorcycle	I ride to school on my scooter.	I want to sell my scooter.
evp	scope	noun	1	C1	how much a subject or situation relates to	Do we know the full scope of the problem yet?	The scope of this article exceeds the problem of the abuse of females.
evp	scope	noun	2	C2	the opportunity to do something	There is plenty of scope for improvement.	Some people argue that living longer gives them plenty of scope to do things they have always wanted to do but could not find the time for.
evp	score	verb	1	B1	to get points in a game or test	Did either team score yet?	I almost scored an own goal.
evp	score	noun	1	B1	the number of points someone gets in a game or test	a high/low score	We took 4 or 5 exams that day and my friend, Erick and I studied all night to get the best scores.
evp	scrap	noun	1	C2	a small piece or amount of something	He wrote his phone number on a scrap of paper.	A group of well-educated boys becomes a savage tribe, killing human beings without a scrap of remorse.
evp	scrap	noun	2	C2	old cars and machines that are not now needed but have parts which can be used to make other things	scrap metal	The last place I would visit was an isolated building] where some lean mongrel dogs were gnawing on rusty bones, while sniffing a]roun the piles of scrap iron the left side of the building was thick with.
evp	scrap	verb	1	C2	to not continue with a plan or idea	That project has now been scrapped.	We therefore propose you scrap your plans for Terminal 5 and instead try to reduce the number of incoming and outgoing flights, by diverting some planes to Luton or Stansted or Gatwick Airport.
evp	scratch	verb	1	B2	to rub your skin with your nails, often because you have an itch	My skin was so itchy, I was scratching all night.	
evp	scratch	verb	2	B2	to make a slight cut or long, thin mark with a sharp object on a surface or on your skin	I scratched myself on the roses.	How can this ridiculous man accuse me of scratching his new car, thought Laura.
evp	scratch	verb	3	B2	to rub a hard surface with a sharp object, often making a noise	The dog's scratching at the door - he wants to be let in.	Something scratched at the door.
evp	scratch	noun	1	B2	a slight cut or a long, thin mark made with a sharp object	I've got all these scratches on my arm from the cat.	No wonder the BMW-owner accused me of having caused the scratch after seeing my picture on the car next to his!!
evp	scratch	noun	2	C1	If you do something from scratch, you do it from the beginning.	We didn't have any furniture of our own so we had to start from scratch.	That means you don't have to start from scratch with your teacher.
evp	scratch	noun	3	C2	to not be good enough	She told me my work wasn't up to scratch.	The size of the rooms and their state as well were not really up to scratch.
evp	scream	verb	1	B1	to make a loud, high noise with your voice, or to shout something in a loud, high voice because you are afraid, hurt, or angry	A spider landed on her pillow and she screamed.	I opened the door and screamed - in front of me was a man standing with his hands covered in blood.
evp	scream	noun	1	B1	when someone screams	We heard screams coming down the hall.	Last night, I was cooking and dad was watching tv when, suddenly I heard a scream.
evp	screen	noun	1	A2	a flat surface in a movie theater, or on a television, computer, cell phone, etc., on which pictures or words are shown	Our television has a 26-inch screen.	It has a large screen, so I can see videos and pictures.
evp	script	noun	1	B2	the words written for and spoken in a film, play, broadcast or speech	Bruce Robinson wrote the script for "The Killing Fields."	I didn't get involved that much in writing a script because it was very hard and the director wrote most of it but the main idea of the background of the stage was mine, and I am very proud of it.
evp	script	noun	2	C2	a set of letters used for writing a particular language	Arabic/Roman script	
evp	scruffy	adjective	1	C2	dirty and untidy	scruffy jeans	For example, if it is particularly trendy for kids to wear scruffy bomber jackets and faded jeans there is no point in compelling them to dress our conventional way.
evp	scrutiny	noun	1	C2	when you examine something carefully	Every aspect of her life came under public scrutiny.	Everything is placed under careful scrutiny.
evp	sculpture	noun	1	B1	a piece of art that is made from stone, wood, clay, etc., or the process of making objects like this	a wood/bronze/marble sculpture	Of course, they will film the ancient buildings, the sculptures and statues; and they will interview some students!
evp	sea	noun	1	A2	a large area of salt water	the Caribbean/Mediterranean Sea	We['ve] got two different seas, in the north is the Caribbean Sea and in the west is the Pa[c]ific [Ocean].
evp	seal	noun	1	B2	an animal with smooth fur that eats fish and lives near the sea	We could see seals swimming near the shore.	After leaving the Orkney Islands, we went by boat to the Shetland Islands, because we wanted to observe the gray seals with their pups that were o] the northwest coast.
evp	seal	verb	1	C2	to close an entrance or container so that air or liquid cannot enter or leave it	She sealed the jars so the jam wouldn't spoil.	In Egypt, the Pyramids are being sealed, because the perspiration of the tourists was ruining the paintings on the walls.
evp	seal	verb	2	C2	to close a letter or parcel by sticking the edges together	to seal an envelope	Jenny, my girlfriend, told me that she sealed the envelope with trembling fingers and then posted it.
evp	seal	verb	3	C2	to prevent people from entering an area or building, often because it is dangerous	Police immediately sealed off the streets.	The police sealed off the main street a few weeks ago because they have been building a new restaurant.
evp	search	verb	1	B1	to try to find someone or something	I've searched my bedroom but I can't find my watch.	He searched the whole bank but could not find it.
evp	search	verb	2	B1	to use a computer to find information, especially on the Internet	I searched the Internet to find the best prices for flights to Barcelona.	Before you had to go to a library to finish your homework. Now, we just search on the internet.
evp	search	verb	3	B2	If the police search a place or a person, they look to see if they are hiding anything illegal.	They were searched at the airport.	The undercover patrol searched our car rather roughly, looking for drugs.
evp	search	verb	4	C1	to try to find an answer to a problem	Doctors are still searching for a cure.	The governments are therefore searching for solutions to compensate for the lack of financial resources.
evp	search	noun	1	B1	when you try to find someone or something	After a long search, they eventually found the missing papers.	Joshua instantly thought it could be a bomb, so he organized a search all over the airport.
evp	search	noun	2	B1	when you use a computer to find information, especially on the Internet	Why not do a search on Google for hotels in the area?	But I think you shouldn't ask me, the best thing is a search on the Internet, so you can see the photos and choose the option you like most.
evp	search	noun	3	B2	when you try to find an answer to a problem	the search for happiness	Hemingway fought in the Spanish Civil War and in World War II, always i] the search for answers to questions like "... what defines a man", or "... what happens to us in critical situations."
evp	seaside	noun	1	B1	an area or town next to the sea	a seaside resort/town	You could also go to "Ferris," a wonderful seaside resort.
evp	season	noun	1	B1	one of the four periods of the year: spring, summer, fall, or winter	I love the changing seasons.	But summer in Poland is as wonderful a season as winter!
evp	season	noun	2	B1	a period of the year when a particular thing happens	How long does the dry/hurricane/wet season last?	Once they had finished, Peter kissed his parents and started his journey on foot heading towards the stadium, to play the first game of the season.
evp	season	noun	3	B2	If vegetables or fruit are in season, they are available and ready to eat.	Asparagus is in season.	They celebrate Halloween in October when pumpkins are in season, that's why in the decorations they include them very often; most of the people carve the pumpkins and put some lights inside.
evp	season	noun	4	C1	If vegetables or fruit are out of season, they are not usually available at that time.	Strawberries are out of season now.	As our place was famous for fresh sea food, I bought crabs and salmon although they were out of season and expensive.
evp	season	noun	5	C2	If you go somewhere out of season, you go during a period of the year when few people are there.	I prefer to travel out of season.	Some towns that are completely dependent on tourism "die" out of season, while others are destroyed because of the excessive emigration of their people.
evp	seasonal	adjective	1	B2	relating to or happening during a particular period in the year	seasonal vegetables	On the other hand we always need someone in our hotel in Luzern, so my parents could get you a seasonal permit to work.
evp	seat	noun	1	A2	a piece of furniture that you sit on	Chairs, stools, sofas and benches are all seats.	I can sell seats to help with the concert.
evp	seat	noun	2	C2	a position in an elected governing group or in another group that makes official decisions	a seat in parliament	This is the story of a man who spent his life paying kickbacks to achieve power and eventually a seat in the parliament.
evp	seat	verb	1	B2	to be sitting down	The director was seated on his right.	A big pink elephant was seated near me.
evp	seat	verb	2	C2	If a building, room, or vehicle seats a particular number of people, that many people can sit in it.	The new concert hall seats 1500 people.	According to the owners, the Swan seats 100 guests and it is always advisable to make reservations.
evp	secluded	adjective	1	C2	If a place is secluded, it is quiet and not near people.	a secluded beach/garden	It is a place of rare beauty: secluded beaches, transparent and shimmering water are only a little part of the fascinating mystery of this gorgeous sea resort.
evp	second	adverb	1	B1	after one other person or thing in order or importance	She didn't win the race, but she did come in second.	[O]n the other hand, New Zealand came second for senior government.
evp	second	adverb	2	B2	used to talk about the second in a series of things	Second, they failed to send written warning.	Second, I think it a good idea to enjoy picking up and eating grapes in a vineyard.
evp	second	noun	1	A2	one of the 60 parts a minute is divided into	There are sixty seconds in a minute.	I thought the British one, Peter, was going to win, but in the last 10 seconds, the Venez[ue]lan won!
evp	second	noun	2	B1	a very short period of time	"Come on, hurry up!" "I'll just/only be a second - I have to lock the back door."	A few seconds later, a huge tree beside my house fell down and destroyed most of my house.
evp	secondary	adjective	1	B1	relating to the education of children approximately between the ages of 12 and 18 years old	secondary education	A TV company has decided to make a film in my high school because it's a normal secondary school.
evp	secondary school	noun	1	B1	a school for students aged between about 14 and 18	State funding has increased for elementary and secondary schools.	They said they chose our school because we are one of the best secondary schools in Mexico City. Can you believe that!?
evp	second-hand	adjective	1	B1	If something is second-hand, someone else owned or used it before you.	second-hand books/clothes	Personally, I only buy second-hand clothes because in second-hand shops, I really like discovering rare things and funny clothes from the 60s or 70s.
evp	secondly	adverb	1	B2	used for introducing the second reason, idea, etc.	I want two things: firstly, more money, and secondly, better working hours.	Secondly, I didn't know that you were working in an organization which is trying to save wildlife, but it sounds very exciting.
evp	the second person	noun	1	B2	the form of a verb or pronoun that is used when referring to the person being spoken or written to	"You" is a second person pronoun.	
evp	secret	noun	1	B1	something that you tell no one about or only a few people	I'm having a party for him but it's a secret.	I told her everything, she knew all my secrets but she never told me her secrets.
evp	secret	noun	2	B2	the best way of achieving something	That's the secret to making a good tomato sauce.	The secret of this diet is that you have to be very optimistic.
evp	secret	noun	3	B2	without telling other people	For years they worked in secret.	And then I realized it was my birthday! Everybody congratulated me on my exam. They had prepared everything in secret.
evp	secret	adjective	1	B1	If something is secret, other people are not allowed to know about it.	The President escaped through a secret passage underneath the parliament building.	When I was at the airport I lost my secret diary.
evp	secretary	noun	1	A2	someone who works in an office, typing letters, answering the telephone, and arranging meetings, etc.	My secretary will phone you to arrange a meeting.	The class is on Friday. You have to bring paper. For more information, ask the secretary.
evp	secretary	noun	2	C1	the member of a committee who keeps records of meetings and deals with correspondence	I'm secretary of the tennis club this year.	From: Secretary of the Social Club To: Mr. Ford, Museum Director
evp	secretary	noun	3	C2	an official who is in charge of a large department of the government	the Secretary of State	The person I want to propose for this duty is the former U.S. Secretary of State Colin Powell.
evp	secretly	adverb	1	B1	without allowing other people to know	She said she didn't care about it, but I believe she was secretly
thrilled.	Then in the evening we'll come to her house secretly. Of course, we should tell her mom everything about this plan.
evp	section	noun	1	B1	one of the parts that something is divided into	the sports section of the newspaper	It has two floors and is divided into sections, one that is a general restaurant and one for vegetarian people.
evp	sector	noun	1	C1	one part of a country's economy	In the financial sector, banks and insurance companies have both lost a lot of money.	Our software solutions are oriented towards the corporate sector where we are recognized as market leaders in this field.
evp	secure	adjective	1	B2	safe from danger or harm or not likely to end	a secure job/investment	I think homes in the future will be more secure.
evp	secure	adjective	2	B2	confident about yourself and the situation that you are in	Children need to feel secure in order to do well at school.	First of all, you feel secure because you know that all the members of the family love you.
evp	secure	adjective	3	C1	designed to make sure that only the person who knows it can get onto a computer system, Web site, etc.	You will be issued with a secure password.	If you decided to work with our superb Direct Net, you would get a secure password which you have to change at your first log in and an electronic card which produces every minute a new combination.
evp	secure	adjective	4	C2	not likely to fail	a secure investment	I consider tourism a secure investment and one that is beneficial.
evp	security	noun	1	B1	protection of a person, building, organization or country against threats such as crime or attacks by foreign countries	security forces/guards	It's about a man that is cloned by a computer and he has to escape from a maximum security jail, it's an action film]
evp	security	noun	2	C1	when something is not likely to fail or be lost	If it's a choice between higher pay and job security, I'd prefer to keep my job.	They are the people who are already regarded as the high class, but the reason for this prediction is that they have job security which has become a big issue in Korea after IMF, as well as high salary.
evp	security	noun	3	C2	confidence about yourself and the situation that you are in	the security of a long-term relationship	One is the security of having your mom around all the time.
evp	sedentary	adjective	1	C2	spending a lot of time sitting down or not being active	a sedentary job/lifestyle	Improving the sports facilities means encouraging the residents to include physical exercise in their daily routine. Considering the sedentary lifestyle most people have adopted this would be of great importance.
evp	seduce	verb	1	C2	to persuade someone to have sex with you	She was seduced by her boss.	One of the reasons why Olivia leaves her husband is that she has been seduced by an Indian prince.
evp	seduce	verb	2	C2	to persuade someone to do something they would not normally do	I wouldn't have bought it but I was seduced by the low prices.	Sometimes I was seduced into buying very "useful" things by some cunning and attractive commercials on the television.
evp	see	verb	1	A1	to notice people and things with your eyes	Turn the light on so I can see.	Every time I went to Hendon Park, I saw so many people there.
evp	see	verb	2	A1	used for saying goodbye to someone	See you! Enjoy your vacation!	[This] is my new number (07782472751). See you.
evp	see	verb	3	A1	used for saying goodbye to someone you are going to meet again later/soon/tomorrow, etc.	I'll see you later!	See you soon.
evp	see	verb	4	A1	to meet or visit someone	We're seeing friends on Friday.	I go to India every year to see my friends and family because I love them.
evp	see	verb	5	A2	to watch a movie, television program, etc.	Did you see that documentary on TV last night?	I would really like to go to see that movie with you.
evp	see	verb	6	B1	to understand something	I see (that) the club is planning a picnic.	Do you see what I mean?
evp	see	verb	7	B2	to find out information	I'll just see what time the train gets in.	I have looked in my calendar to see what time would be the best for you to come here.
evp	see	verb	8	B2	to imagine or think about something or someone in a particular way	I’ll see how I feel tomorrow.	If I compare the members of my family with these qualities, then I have to say that I don't see them as my best friends.
evp	see	verb	9	C1	used to say that you will make a decision about something later	"Dad, can I have a guitar?" "We'll see."	I'm sure I'd love to have four of them, but there's always the financial aspect. I'm just nineteen, I'll see...
evp	see	verb	10	C1	to wait to discover what will happen	We'll wait and see what she says.	We will just have to wait and see. . . . .
evp	see	verb	11	C1	to be the time or place where something happens	This decade has seen huge technological advances.	But the reason that has driven the strike is the whole country has seen a cut in the subsidies given to unemployed people.
evp	see	verb	12	C1	used when you are giving an explanation about something	I didn't know she was Welsh, you see.	Family matters had to stay in the family, you see.
evp	see	verb	13	C2	If you ask someone to see that something happens, you want them to make sure it happens.	Could you see that everyone gets a copy of this letter?	
evp	see	verb	14	C2	to believe that something will happen	I can't see us finishing on time.	She could see herself doing everyday jobs, studying with the kids, cooking dinner, putting them to bed but she didn't feel there; her thoughts were where they always were trying to find hope to endure the agony.
evp	see	verb	15	C2	to realize you are wrong or have been behaving stupidly	We talked to her for an hour, but we couldn't make her see sense.	Ralph tries to make Jack see sense by showing him the conch which had been the symbol of leadership and also, friendship.
evp	see	verb	16	C2	believe to be what is good, correct, or necessary	You can leave it here or take it home with you, whichever you see fit.	I am, therefore, expressing my willingness, through this letter, to participate in this endeavor in whatever way you may see fit.
evp	see	verb	17	C2	to look old or be in bad condition because of a lot of use	This jacket has seen better days.	In the dense fog he managed to see a man standing nearby, whose clothes had definitely seen better days.
evp	see	verb	18	B2	to go to the place that someone is leaving from in order to say goodbye	They came to see me off at the airport.	She came to the station to see him off.
evp	see	verb	19	B2	to understand that someone is trying to deceive you	It didn't take long for us to see through his charm.	
evp	see	verb	20	B2	to deal with a person or task that needs to be dealt with	"These letters need to be mailed." "I'll see to them later."	If you want to keep an animal happy and healthy, it is also important, in my opinion, to see to it that, for instance, the monkeys have real trees to climb in!
evp	seed	noun	1	B2	a small round or oval object produced by a plant that a new plant can grow from	Plant the seeds about 1 inch deep.	[For] several years, I have been very interested in flowers, fresh, dried and artificial and also different kinds of seeds.
evp	seed	noun	2	C2	the beginning of something	the seeds of hope/change	Charity workers are keen to contribute with their work, their hearts and the seeds of hope and peace they leave wherever they go.
evp	seek	verb	1	B2	to try to find or get something	"Are you actively seeking work?" she asked.	I am seeking employment and am interested in your offer.
evp	seek	verb	2	C2	to try to do something	They are seeking to change the rules.	Jack never accepted Ralph as a chief and throughout the book he seeks to assume power.
evp	seemingly	adverb	1	C1	appearing to be something without really being that thing	a seemingly harmless comment	You also claim that we did not reach our target figure - a statement seemingly based on pure assumption - which is completely incorrect.
evp	seize	verb	1	B2	to take hold of something quickly and firmly	I seized his arm and made him turn to look at me.	Besides, I think that the wild beasts have the right to live free and seize their prey in order to feed themselves.
evp	seize	verb	2	B2	to do something quickly in order to use an opportunity	You need to seize every opportunity.	So we seize the opportunity to go to the sea.
evp	seize	verb	3	C2	to take control of a place suddenly by using military force	Troops seized control in the early hours of the morning.	
evp	seldom	adverb	1	B2	not often	I seldom drive my car into the city.	Alice was a quiet girl, she seldom talked, but he just couldn't stop talking.
evp	select	verb	1	B1	to choose someone or something from a group	There was a choice of four prizes, and the winner could select one of them.	I've been selected to play on the school football team and we've got a match tomorrow.
evp	selection	noun	1	B2	when someone or something is chosen	the selection process	The selection of films and plays was well made, but I would have appreciated it if there had been more.
evp	selection	noun	2	B2	a group of people or things that has been chosen	Most schools would have a good selection of these books in their libraries.	There is a good selection of bar food.
evp	selective	adjective	1	C1	intentionally choosing some things or people and not others	As a teacher she was very selective, accepting only a small number of highly talented pupils.	At the same time, this makes us extremely selective when it comes to the people we want working with us.
evp	self	noun	1	C1	your characteristics, including your personality, your abilities, etc.	Now I’m feeling better, and I’m back to my old self again.	True recognition and happiness can't be derived from television or front covers but only from one's true self.
evp	self-assurance	noun	1	C2	the quality of being confident about yourself	He spoke with remarkable self-assurance for such a young man.	She would have to show self-assurance, determination to get the job, and give the feeling that she would be up to the task.
evp	self-assured	adjective	1	C2	confident about yourself	She's a very self-assured young woman.	I assume that in order to reach success you must be shrewd, self-reliant, self-assured and above all assertive.
evp	self-awareness	noun	1	C2	good knowledge and judgment about yourself	She has a high level of self-awareness.	Montag's friendship with Clarisse, a young girl who is sensitive towards humans and nature, serves as a catalyst in the commencement of the antagonist's self-awareness.
evp	self-centered	adjective	1	C1	interested only in yourself	Angela is a good kid but at times she can be self-centered.	I think that we were so self-centered and pleased with our selves that we forgot to look around.
evp	self-confidence	noun	1	B2	being self-confident	Since she left home, her self-confidence has grown.	In my opinion, the reason for it is that not many people know how to prepare for an interview and gain self-confidence.
evp	self-confident	adjective	1	B2	feeling sure about yourself and your abilities	He's a very self-confident young man.	So when the day came, she felt much more self-confident and determined than before.
evp	self-conscious	adjective	1	C1	nervous or uncomfortably aware of yourself and what people think about you or your actions	He looked uncomfortable, like a self-conscious adolescent who's gone to the wrong party.	Video equipment however is something we have been wanting for a long time, for the following reasons: [...] - to enhance interpretation of body language as well as spoken language; this aspect is often neglected but of major importance; - to record and play back the students while speaking a monologue or discussing among a group: this enhances their fluency and makes them less self-conscious and thus more confident while expressing themselves in a foreign language; - last but not least: to make learning more fun and thus attract more students.
evp	self-control	noun	1	C2	the ability to control your emotions and actions even when you are very angry, upset, etc.	He lost his temper, and displayed a total lack of self-control.	Doing that kind of job requires a lot of self-control.
evp	self-discipline	noun	1	C2	the ability to make yourself do things that you do not want to do	I don't have the self-discipline to be an athlete.	Nowadays, some of her most noticeable characterictics are her courtesy, her self-discipline and the compassion that she shows for those who suffer.
evp	self-esteem	noun	1	C1	confidence in yourself and a belief in your qualities and abilities	She suffers from low self-esteem.	I think that the lack of self-esteem among men underlies the whole situation.
evp	selfish	adjective	1	B1	caring only about yourself and not other people	It's very selfish of him to go away every weekend.	I found this sport very interesting, because you have to play in a team so you must not be selfish, you have to change your spirit.
evp	selfishness	noun	1	C1	the quality of being selfish	I was appalled by his selfishness.	It seems to me that everywhere in the world, people are not necessarily aware of the fact that planet Earth is the most precious gift we have. Greed and selfishness are also very common in Switzerland, even if this country might be already a few steps further forward than others.
evp	self-made	adjective	1	C2	rich because you have earned a lot of money yourself	a self-made millionaire	One of the reasons I think my father is successful in life is because he is a self-made man.
evp	self-reliance	noun	1	C2	the quality of not needing help and support from other people	These kids need to learn some self-reliance.	When she finally faced "Mr. Right" for the second time this morning, she discovered she was a new woman, endowed with self-reliance and a high sense of her being, her self-esteem, magically empowered.
evp	self-reliant	adjective	1	C2	able to do things yourself without depending on other people	The children are beginning to be a bit more self-reliant.	You must have a firm, outgoing personality, but be self-reliant and strong-willed.
evp	self-respect	noun	1	C2	the feeling of pride in yourself and your character	Having a job gave them back their self-respect.	And this proves that professional activity is a source of self-respect and, eventually, leads to satisfaction.
evp	self-service	adjective	1	B1	A self-service business or service is one in which you serve yourself and are not served by the people who work there.	a self-service gas station	I went to have lunch in a self-service restaurant and in the afternoon I continued my visit.
evp	self-sufficient	adjective	1	C2	having everything that you need yourself and not needing help from others	We hope to grow enough vegetables to be completely self-sufficient this winter.	Nowadays, though we consider the fact of having longer life expectancy an improvement, the society tends to marginalize an old person and tends to view him or her as a burden, especially if this person is not self-sufficient.
evp	sell	verb	1	A2	to give something to someone else in return for money	I sold him my car/I sold my car to him for $2000.	I want to sell my computer.
evp	sell	verb	2	A2	to offer something for people to buy	Excuse me, do you sell newspapers?	We have some malls which sell clothes and I love shopping there.
evp	sell	verb	3	A2	to be available for sale at a particular price	The shirts are selling for $30 each.	I heard larger t-shirts are selling for €35.
evp	sell	verb	4	B2	to be bought in large numbers	His last book sold eight million copies.	The single with her new song sold more than 15 million copies, now she was a powerfull star.
evp	sell	verb	5	C2	to persuade someone that an idea or plan is good	I've been trying to sell the idea to my boss.	
evp	sell	verb	6	C2	to be bought quickly and in large numbers	Their new game is selling like hotcakes.	They will buy the products, which I'm sure will sell like hotcakes!
evp	sell	verb	7	B2	If a supply of something sells out, or if it is sold out, there is no more of that thing to buy.	The first issue of the magazine sold out within two days.	All the tickets were sold out and the stadium was nearly full.
evp	seller	noun	1	B1	someone who sells something	flower/newspaper/souvenir sellers	It was then my mother remembered a toy seller had been selling toys in the place where we had been waiting in the station and that our suitcases must have got mixed up.
evp	semester	noun	1	A2	one of two periods of time that the school or university year is divided into	fall/spring semester	My grandmother is from Germany. That's why everybody in my family should know German. I want to start next semester.
evp	semicolon	noun	1	B2	a mark (;) used to separate parts of a sentence, or items in a list which already has commas	Use a semicolon to separate the groups of items in your list.	
evp	semi-final	noun	1	B2	one of the two games in a sports competition that are played to decide who will play in the final game	Who's in the semi-finals?	One Sunday morning we had to play the cup semi-final against our great rival.
evp	seminar	noun	1	B2	a meeting of a group of people with a teacher or expert for training, discussion, or study of a subject	I attended practically every lecture and seminar when I was a student.	I also need this job because I need money to attend some seminars.
evp	send	verb	1	A1	to arrange for something to go to or be delivered somewhere or to someone	Juan has just sent me a text message.	I can use the internet to learn English, and sometimes I send e-mail.
evp	send	verb	2	B2	to make someone go somewhere	We're sending the children to stay with my parents for a couple of weeks.	We should build more schools because we only have one, so we have to send our children away and none of us like that.
evp	send	verb	3	C2	to cause someone or something to do a particular thing, or to cause something to happen	The explosion sent the crowd into a panic.	While we were singing a duet by Mendelssohn with my sister, a sweeping movement of my hand sent two pages of music flying toward the first row of seats.
evp	send	verb	4	C2	to make you feel afraid or excited	The sound of his voice sent shivers down my spine.	Simply looking at her sent shivers down his spine - there was the love of his life, the dearest woman on good old Earth, that he's never met before.
evp	send	verb	5	B1	to return something to the person who sent it to you, especially because it is damaged or not suitable	I had to send the shirt back because it didn't fit me.	I usually order my clothes on the Internet. It's fast, easy and you don't have any problems sending them back if they don't fit.
evp	send	verb	6	C2	to send someone a message asking them to come to see you	We had to send for a doctor.	Immediately after his arrival he sent for Beadle.
evp	send	verb	7	B2	to send a letter, document or parcel by mail	Have you sent off your application yet?	
evp	send	verb	8	C2	to produce something in a way that causes it to spread out from a central point	The laser sends out a red beam of light.	On the other side of the lake the placid grazing cows would munch their breakfast as the sun rose on the horizon, sending out a flood of colors across the sky.
evp	senior	adjective	1	B2	having a more important job or position than someone else	a senior executive	She is also extraordinary in that she graduated from Harvard University and Tokyo University and used to work for the Ministry of the Foreign Affairs as a senior civil servant.
evp	senior	adjective	2	B2	relating to the fourth and final year of study in a high school, college, or university	Alanna’s in her senior year of high school.	They made a film about this guy in the senior class who is able to dance like a pro despite being handicapped from the waist down.
evp	senior	adjective	3	B2	relating to people who are older	You can't use a senior ticket during rush hour - you have to pay full fare.	When I got to the tickets desk before the show to buy my ticket I asked for a senior discount, and the woman told me there were no discounts available as I read on the advertising.
evp	senior	noun	1	B2	a student in the fourth and final year of study in a high school, college, or university	The seniors are taking their exams today.	One day my geography teacher gathered the seniors and the juniors in our class, plus the principal and other two or three teachers, so that they could listen to me making a speech on my beautiful home-country.
evp	senior	noun	2	B2	someone over the age of 65	Seniors get a discount.	But we have a lot of volunteers, people who love their city, first of all students and senior citizens.
evp	sensation	noun	1	B2	a physical feeling, or the ability to physically feel things	a burning sensation	When I fell into the water, I was shocked. I couldn't move my right leg, the sensation was horrible.
evp	sensation	noun	2	B2	a strange feeling or idea that you cannot explain	I had the odd sensation (that) someone was following me.	Suddenly I had the sensation that something was wrong.
evp	sensation	noun	3	B2	a lot of excitement, surprise or interest	Their marriage caused a sensation.	In the poetry, she expressed her sad feeling, thinking of her brother who was in China as a soldier. It caused a sensation.
evp	sensational	adjective	1	C1	done in a way that is intended to shock people	sensational journalism	I think that the journalists desired sensational news far too much and they exaggerated.
evp	sensational	adjective	2	C2	very exciting or extremely good	a sensational performance	If you are up for some sensational fun, "New York-New York" is your place, with a crazy roller coaster soaring through the lobby and out into open air.
evp	sense	noun	1	B1	a feeling or understanding about yourself or about a situation	Did you get any sense of what they might do?	I like to see how people fight for the prize. I like this sense of competition that only sports give!
evp	sense	noun	2	B1	the ability to understand funny things and to be funny yourself	Carol has a wicked sense of humor.	She is a very nice person with a very good sense of humor and moral values.
evp	sense	noun	3	B2	good judgment, especially about practical things	I hope they'll have the (good) sense/have enough sense to shut the windows before they leave.	People should have the sense to dispose of all the waste properly.
evp	sense	noun	4	B2	the ability to do something	He's got a good sense of direction and hardly ever uses a map.	Animals are part of nature so they must be free to go where their sense of direction leads them]
evp	sense	noun	5	B2	one of the five natural abilities of sight, hearing, touch, smell, and taste	My cold is so bad I've lost my sense of smell/taste.	You can enjoy a flight with all your five senses.
evp	sense	noun	6	B2	to have a meaning or reason that you can understand	He's written me this note but it doesn't make any sense.	Eighty kilometres in the mountains just to look at views doesn't make any sense to me.
evp	sense	noun	7	B2	to be a good thing to do	It makes sense to buy now while prices are low.	Therefore it makes sense to use the innovations.
evp	sense	noun	8	B2	one of the possible meanings of a word or phrase	They are not immigrants, at least not in any sense that I understand.	The Empress was an ideal lady in every sense of the word.
evp	sense	noun	9	C1	thinking about something in a particular way	In a sense, he's right.	In a sense this is correct, since you have to leave your natural environment to visit a place where no human being is meant to survive.
evp	sense	noun	10	C2	to understand something that is difficult to understand	I'm trying to make sense of this document.	In fact, it's during his journey that Stevens begins to make sense of his life, of all the years he spent as a butler, as the "perfect butler" who had to be loyal, silent and discreet.
evp	sense	noun	11	C2	to realize you are wrong or have been behaving stupidly	We talked to her for an hour, but we couldn't make her see sense.	Ralph tries to make Jack see sense by showing him the conch which had been the symbol of leadership and also, friendship.
evp	sense	verb	1	C2	to feel or experience something without being able to explain exactly how	Although she said nothing, I could sense her anger.	By that time the widow could not walk and the widower could not see. When the widower sensed that the widow badly wanted to go, the widow clung onto the widower's back and they set off, with her telling him where to go.
evp	senseless	adjective	1	C2	happening or done without a good reason	senseless violence	Maybe after a thousand years of wars between Poland and Germany both sides have finally decided that fighting and killing is senseless.
evp	sensibility	noun	1	C2	someone's feelings, or the ability to understand what other people feel	his aesthetic sensibility	All the features mentioned above are extremely important but they mean nothing if your offspring lacks kindness, sensibility and ignores his family traditions.
evp	sensible	adjective	1	B1	showing good judgment	a sensible approach/strategy/solution	I know it sounds strange but there's a sensible reason: money talks.
evp	sensibly	adverb	1	C1	in a sensible way	She behaved very sensibly about it.	As time goes by] these kids quite don't understand the importance of using money sensibly and saving money.
evp	sensitive	adjective	1	B2	easily upset by the things people say or do	Her reply showed that she was very sensitive to criticism.	Nowadays we are not so sensitive.
evp	sensitive	adjective	2	B2	able to react very quickly and easily	a sensitive measuring instrument	I am very sensitive to noise, especially at night, and tend to catch a cold even in summer.
evp	sensitive	adjective	3	B2	easy to damage and needing to be protected	This part of Cape Hatteras is an environmentally sensitive area where sea turtles nest.	
evp	sensitive	adjective	4	B2	A sensitive subject or situation needs to be handled carefully in order to avoid upsetting people.	Job loss and rising costs are sensitive issues.	I knew that I could not cry and shout because it was too important and sensitive a problem for us.
evp	sensitive	adjective	5	B2	able to understand what people are feeling and deal with them in a way that does not upset them	I want a man who's kind and sensitive.	One thing Bobby is good at is that he is bright and sensitive enough to protect you.
evp	sensitivity	noun	1	C1	the ability to understand how other people are feeling and to be helpful and kind to them	The police showed great sensitivity in their handling of the case.	It is written with sensitivity, honesty, sincerity and objectiveness.
evp	sensitivity	noun	2	C1	the quality of being easily upset by things that people say or do	I should have warned you about her sensitivity to criticism.	One of her weaknesses would be her great sensitivity.
evp	sentence	noun	1	A1	a group of words, usually containing a verb, that expresses a complete idea	He's very impatient and always interrupts me mid-sentence.	Ev[e]ry lesson, I read and write loads of sentences.
evp	sentence	noun	2	B2	a punishment that a judge gives to someone who has committed a crime	They each served a three-year prison sentence.	This is even worse than a real life sentence.
evp	sentence	verb	1	B2	to give a punishment to someone who has committed a crime	He was sentenced to 3 months in jail and fined $5000.	Soon afterwards he gets imprisoned again and is sentenced to death. Sydney takes his place and is executed instead of him.
evp	sentiment	noun	1	C2	a general feeling, attitude, or opinion about something	nationalist/religious sentiments	We would discuss for hours on end, arguing most of the times, and never express our true inner sentiments.
evp	sentimental	adjective	1	C2	showing kind feelings such as sympathy, love, etc.	a sentimental song	I do love Lighthouse Family's music - the sentimental lyrics and catchy tunes all flow with the black singer's magic voice.
evp	sentimental	adjective	2	C2	related to feelings and memories and not related to how much money something costs	It wasn't an expensive ring but it had great sentimental  value.	It can be the value in money that makes people be attached to a possession or, rather, a sentimental or symbolic link.
evp	separate	adjective	1	B1	not connected to or touching anything else	a separate compartment	But there was no choice, as all my friends who did go were already in separate rooms.
evp	separate	adjective	2	B1	different or new	Use a separate sheet of paper.	Yesterday I bought a lot of presents, so I needed a separate suitcase.
evp	separate	adjective	3	B2	not affecting or related to each other	I asked him to turn his music down on three separate occasions.	She went to Lisbon, and we ended up living separate lives.
evp	separate	verb	1	B2	to divide into parts, or to make something divide into parts	I separated the class into three groups.	Recently a new system has been introduced which enables us to separate the different kinds of waste, such as plastics, organics and batteries.
evp	separate	verb	2	B2	to move apart, or to make people move apart	I'll have to separate you two if you don't stop talking.	I noticed that there were some people fighting, and we tried to separate them.
evp	separate	verb	3	B2	to start to live in a different place from your husband or wife because the relationship has ended	My parents separated when I was four.	But his parents separated and John didn't see his mother again, as well as his sister, after that day.
evp	separately	adverb	1	B2	not together	Detectives interviewed the men separately.	They were living separately and missing each other.
evp	separation	noun	1	B2	when two or more people or things are separated	During the war, many couples had to face long periods of separation.	The separation from nature is dangerous for human beings, it may result in the loss of the connection with the basis of humanity.
evp	separation	noun	2	B2	the decision of two people who were married to stop living together	They decided on a trial separation.	We lived for a time in peace but our happiness ceased because of his jealousy and fear of losing me, which was the cause of our daylong quarrels. There was no solution apart from separation.
evp	September	noun	1	A1	the ninth month of the year, after August and before October	the 23rd of September/September 23(rd)	My course started i] September.
evp	sequence	noun	1	C1	a part of a movie or video game that shows one thing that happens	I particularly enjoyed the dream sequence.	However, the rest of the game is not as polished as the opening sequence: indeed, it seems that the developers simply re-used the graphical engine of the prequel, without even revamping it: the result is truly disappointing.
evp	sequence	noun	2	C2	a series of related events or things that have a particular order	the sequence of events that led to his death	They don't emerge from nowhere, as there was a certain sequence of events that has led to them, so having the full picture with past events influencing our present can help us to find efficient solutions.
evp	sequence	noun	3	C2	the order that events or things should happen or be arranged in	I got my slides mixed up and they appeared out of sequence.	It was the fourth summer in sequence that he had chosen this hotel to spend his holiday but this he had never experienced before.
evp	serene	adjective	1	C2	calm and quiet	a serene face/smile	I enjoy looking at this image, which bears the skill of a 16th century artist: the mother's expression is solemn and tender as she looks at the boy, while Christ's face is completely serene and is lit with a faint smile.
evp	serenity	noun	1	C2	a feeling of being calm and happy	She sat there with an air of serenity about her.	She strongly believes that art brings peace, harmony, serenity and tranquility in their life, which could balance their emotions and help them to overcome difficulties.
evp	serial	adjective	1	C2	happening in parts that follow one after another in order or over time	a serial drama/novel/story	As a cartoonist, Aoyama originally started to draw short stories for the entertainment pages of local newspapers. However, an editor recognized his talent, and sponsored him to create, and draw some longer, serial stories.
evp	serial	adjective	2	C1	describes a person who repeatedly commits the same crime, often using the same method, or a serious crime that is committed repeatedly by one person	She wrote a thriller about a brutal serial killer.	These pictures have never been broadcast because too many important people are involved in these serial killings.
evp	serial	noun	1	C1	a story in a magazine or on television or radio that is told in separate parts over a period of time	I'm watching a serial set in Yorkshire.	As I have already mentioned the quality of the English language used is exceptional and I would like to congratulate all the people that take part in the serial.
evp	series	noun	1	B1	a group of television or radio programs that have the same main characters or deal with the same subject	a comedy series	I like television series like Smallville.
evp	series	noun	2	B2	several things or events of the same type that come one after the other	He had a series of tests, but they can't find anything wrong.	The aim of this report is to make a series of suggestions on which lessons and other activities should be filmed.
evp	series	noun	3	B2	a set of books published by the same company which deal with the same subject	They do a series on architecture throughout the ages.	We read all of Poirot and the [Miss] Marple series.
evp	serious	adjective	1	B1	A serious problem or situation is bad and makes people worry.	a serious illness	As you know I have got a serious problem with my eyes.
evp	serious	adjective	2	B1	not joking or intended to be funny	Please don't laugh - I'm being serious.	We are taught how to act in both comic and serious parts.
evp	serious	adjective	3	B1	A serious person does not laugh often.	I remember her as a very serious child.	Well, the new teacher is very serious, but this is ok.
evp	serious	adjective	4	B2	needing or deserving your complete attention	That's an interesting job offer - I'd give it some serious consideration if I were you.	I think it would be worthwhile to give serious thought to these animals.
evp	seriously	adverb	1	B1	badly or severely	seriously ill/worried	She is seriously ill with cancer.
evp	seriously	adverb	2	B2	in a way that shows that you are not joking	Seriously now, did he really say that or are you just being silly?	Seriously, Tom, I have noticed that you get angry very easily since your examinations started.
evp	seriously	adverb	3	B2	to consider a person, subject or situation to be important or dangerous and worth your attention or respect	The police have to take any terrorist threat seriously.	I hope you take my suggestions seriously.
evp	servant	noun	1	B2	someone who works and lives in someone else's house doing their cooking and cleaning, especially in the past	They employed more than 50 servants.	In this book, the author includ]e a detailed description of the two main characters: the rich English master PHILEAS FOGG and his French servant PASSEPARTOUT.
evp	serve	verb	1	A2	to give someone food or drink, especially guests or customers in a restaurant or bar	Do they serve brunch on the weekend?	We ate a lot because my mom served many kinds of food at my party.
evp	serve	verb	2	C1	to be useful as something	It's a very entertaining movie but it also serves an educational purpose.	As for replanting, it will serve to rejuvenate our forests around Agrinio.
evp	serve	verb	3	C1	to do work that helps society, for example in an organization such as the army or the government	to serve in the army	Women in the former GDR ha] the same rights and had to fulfill nearly the same duties (except the duty to serve in the army) as men.
evp	serve	verb	4	C2	to be in prison for a period of time	Williams, 42, is serving a four-year jail sentence.	It all came to me in prison where I was serving a two-year sentence.
evp	server	noun	1	B1	a central computer from which other computers get information	a network/file server	It was my boss, who said "I'm in Australia, and I can't read my e-mail, the server at work crashed.
evp	service	noun	1	B1	a system or organization that provides something that people need	the postal service	I told him to phone the after-sales service.
evp	service	noun	2	B1	when people help you and bring you things in a place such as a restaurant or hotel	The only trouble with this café is that the service is so slow.	Moreover there's excellent service, all the waiters are really nice and polite.
evp	service	noun	3	B2	an amount of money charged for serving a customer in a restaurant, which is often paid directly to the waiter	A 15 percent service charge is included for parties of six or more.	The thing which annoyed me the most was that they have a 20% service charge, but I refused to pay it because there was no service.
evp	service	noun	4	B2	a government department that is responsible for a particular area of activity	the diplomatic service	I was employed in the security service.
evp	service	noun	5	B2	the armed forces, or work done in the armed forces	military service	He finished his military service, and now he was on his way to his family, who had been waiting for him for a long time.
evp	service	noun	6	C1	the time you spend working for an organization	He retired last week after 25 years' service.	In my mind he is the perfect candidate, because due to his long service in the U.S. Army, where superiors are obliged to take care of their subordinates, he was in contact with young people from all kinds of ethnic backgrounds and social classes.
evp	session	noun	1	B1	a period of time or a meeting arranged for a particular activity	The 21-year-old runner twisted his ankle in a training session last Friday.	Last week we had the normal two training sessions and a game against another club.
evp	setback	noun	1	C1	a problem that makes something happen later or more slowly than it should	The project has suffered a series of setbacks this year.	A strong bond between you and your friends, with whom you can have discussions about personal setbacks, is another very vital point.
evp	setting	noun	1	B2	the position of a house or other building	Their cottage is in a beautiful rural setting.	[It is a beautiful setting with old architecture, trees and glittering water.
evp	setting	noun	2	B2	the time and the place in which the action of a book, movie, play, etc. happens	The play has its setting in a wartime prison camp.	The setting of "The Third Man" is Vienna after the Second World War.
evp	settle	verb	1	B2	If you settle an argument, you solve the problem and stop arguing.	My father and I have agreed finally to settle our differences.	Caroline and her husband had had an argument last week, but as he was going to be away for a few days, they had finally settled their differences.
evp	settle	verb	2	B2	to start living somewhere that you are going to live for a long time	After they got married, they settled in Kentucky.	I can understand why you have decided to settle near the Loire Valley, which is one of the greatest parts of France.
evp	settle	verb	3	B2	to decide or arrange something	OK, that's settled. We're going to Spain.	I really hope it will not take you long to settle the matter.
evp	settle	verb	4	C1	to move to a lower level and stay there	The house had been empty for years, and dust had settled on all the surfaces.	Whenever I have cleaned my shelves you can just watch the dust settle on them]
evp	settle	verb	5	C2	If you settle a bill or a debt, you pay the money that you owe.	I've got some bills to settle.	Many individuals are caught overspending when they check their credit card statements, later having to borrow from money lenders to settle their bills.
evp	settle	verb	6	B2	to become familiar with a place and to feel happy and confident in it	She quickly settled down in her new house/job/school.	He seemed to be such a nice guy and I was very happy to find you have settled down so well in your new life.
evp	settle	verb	7	C1	to start living in a place where you intend to stay for a long time	Eventually I'd like to settle down and have a family, but not yet.	I guess the changes occur once the young couple decides to marry and settle down.
evp	settle	verb	8	C2	to become quiet and calm, or to make someone quiet and calm	They settled down on the sofa to watch the movie.	You should welcome your relatives, make them settle down and ask them to wait a moment.
evp	settle	verb	9	C1	to begin to feel relaxed and happy in a new home or job	Are you settling in OK?	After you settle in, you'll find there's a lot of ways to save money on food.
evp	settlement	noun	1	C2	the payment of money that is owed	We enclose a check in settlement of your claim.	
evp	settlement	noun	2	C1	an official agreement that finishes an argument	a peace settlement	All employees working for the public transport went on strike a week ago, and there is no settlement in sight.
evp	settlement	noun	3	C2	an arrangement to end a disagreement without taking it to a court of law	They reached an out-of-court settlement.	Hoping for a settlement without having to involve the courts, I remain.
evp	settlement	noun	4	C2	a town or village which people built to live in after arriving from somewhere else	An isolated settlement far from the big city.	The traditional style of small living communities in tribes cannot be sustained, since the farmlands around a settlement cannot provide the people with sufficient food and work.
evp	seven	noun	1	A1	the number 7	The restaurant opens for dinner at seven o'clock.	Tomorrow I'll finish my work at six o'clock, so I think that I'll can arrive your home at seven o'clock.
evp	seventeen	noun	1	A1	the number 17	sixteen, seventeen, eighteen	He is seventeen years old.
evp	seventy	noun	1	A2	the number 70	sixty, seventy, eighty	I have bought new shoes. I bought them because there were very beautiful, and they cost only seventy dollars.
evp	seventy	noun	2	B2	to be aged between 70 and 79	Both my parents are in their seventies.	After some minutes, an old man in his late seventies opened the door and told us in his trembling voice that Daisy wasn't at home.
evp	seventy	noun	3	B2	the years 1970 through 1979	I grew up in the seventies.	The nineties is, indeed, a reverse of the seventies.
evp	severe	adjective	1	B2	extremely bad	a severe chest infection/leg injury/toothache	Their life was a severe financial struggle, and Tom's dream was to run somewhere far away.
evp	severe	adjective	2	B2	a severe person is unfriendly or very strict	She had her hair tied back in a severe style.	Jane Eyre is sent away to a school for orphans. [...] The atmosphere in school is no better, with little food and severe teachers.
evp	severely	adverb	1	B2	very seriously	Their daughter was severely injured in a car accident.	In spite of trying to repair it, it is still severely damaged.
evp	severity	noun	1	C2	how severe something is	Flights were cancelled owing to the severity of the weather.	In conclusion, we have to accept the severity of the environmental damage, but we should not give up our hopes for a better future.
evp	sew	verb	1	B1	to make or repair clothes by joining pieces of cloth using a needle and thread	My grandmother taught me to sew.	Well, I used to sew my clothes on my own.
evp	sewing	noun	1	C1	the activity of joining pieces of cloth together or repairing them with a needle and thread	I'm not very good at sewing.	I especially cherish the idea of finding myself in Camelot being a lady in waiting to Queen Guinevere - to spend my days reading, sewing, embroidering, learning about far off places and discoveries, adventures and the latest gossip from the court.
evp	sex	noun	1	B1	the state of being either male or female	What sex is your cat?	The teacher gave me the application form about my name, age, sex, nationality and address.
evp	sex	noun	2	B1	sexual activity between people	She was complaining about all the sex and violence on television.	I hate watching soap operas and thrillers, because they contain too much violence and sex.
evp	sex	noun	3	C1	people who are the other sex from you	When you attend an all girls or all boys school, you don't study with members of the opposite sex.	This is not only about trying to impress (preferably) a person of the opposite sex, but fashion also gives you a great chance to express yourself.
evp	sexual	adjective	1	B2	relating to the activity of sex	a sexual relationship	Before continuing with the story I would like to remind you that having sexual relationships was common to everybody in Brave New World.
evp	sexual	adjective	2	C1	relating to being male or female	He’s always believed in sexual equality.	But we must not forget that there is still sexual discrimination when women apply for jobs higher up in a hierarchy.
evp	sexy	adjective	1	B2	attractive or exciting in a sexual way	sexy underwear	Richard was only wearing Levis Jean[s] and a white T shirt but looked so sexy and handsome.
evp	shabby	adjective	1	C1	looking messy and in bad condition	shabby clothes/furniture	With neither lift nor room service provided our guests had to stay in dirty and shabby rooms on the 4th floor.
evp	shabby	adjective	2	C2	not fair or not honest	She received very shabby treatment from her employers.	Due to such shabby arguments, my adversaries lost the favor of the population.
evp	shade	noun	1	B1	an area where light from the sun is blocked and so it is darker and not as hot	I'd prefer to sit in the shade.	The shade from huge trees kept me cool and fresh.
evp	shade	noun	2	B2	a color, especially when referring to how dark or light it is	a pale/dark shade of gray	Not only was it a beautiful day but the sky was a magnificent shade of blue as well.
evp	shade	noun	3	C2	a small amount	He's perhaps a shade taller.	
evp	shade	noun	4	C2	a cover that stops too much light coming from the sun or from an electric light	a lamp shade	You will like sitting there at dark wooden tables, under the light coming from red and white checked lamp shades hanging from the ceiling.
evp	shadow	noun	1	B1	a dark area made by something that is stopping the light	The tree had cast a long shadow.	Suddenly I saw a shadow and as I turned over I noticed that something was moving in the trees.
evp	shadow	noun	2	C2	If something is true beyond a shadow of a doubt, it is certainly true.	He stole the money, without a shadow of a doubt.	It is beyond the shadow of a doubt that Douglas does not offer her this kind of life.
evp	shake	verb	1	B1	to move backward and forward or up and down in quick, short movements, or to make something or someone do this	A young boy climbed into the apple tree and shook the branches so that the fruit fell down.	I was getting nervous and my hands began to shake.
evp	shake	verb	2	B1	to hold someone's hand and move it up and down when you meet them for the first time, or when you make an agreement with them	The two leaders smiled and shook hands for the photographers.	I felt embarrassed when all my friends thought they were my friends, so they all shook hands with them except me.
evp	shake	verb	3	B2	If you are shaking, your body makes quick short movements, or you feel as if it is doing so, because you are frightened or nervous.	She was shaking as she opened the letter.	She understood that it was absolutely foolish of her to stand t]her shaking with fear.
evp	shake	verb	4	B2	to move your head from side to side to mean "no"	I asked him if he wanted to come and he just shook his head.	He just looked at me shaking his head and got into his car and drove off.
evp	shake	verb	5	C2	If your voice shakes, you sound very nervous or frightened.	He looked pale, and his voice shook as he spoke.	"Excuse me, my name is Heathcliff Moore, I'm a musician," he approached the owner with shaking voice.
evp	shake	verb	6	C2	to get rid of an illness, something unpleasant, or something that is causing you problems	I hope I can shake off this cold before the weekend.	He was capable of shaking off the criticism due to the fact that he believed strongly enough in himself, which I find quite remarkable.
evp	shake	verb	7	C1	to cause large changes in something	Technological changes have shaken up many industries.	I believe that their aim is to shake up public opinion in the most impressive way they can.
evp	shake	verb	8	C2	If an unpleasant experience shakes someone up, it makes them feel shocked and upset.	The accident really shook him up.	
evp	shaken	adjective	1	C2	shocked and upset	They were not injured in the accident, but they were badly shaken.	After that encounter with her old classmate she felt shaken and upset.
evp	shallow	adjective	1	B2	not deep	The stream was quite shallow so we were able to walk across it.	A heavy body plunged into the shallow water of harbor No 14.
evp	shallow	adjective	2	C2	not showing any interest in serious ideas	He is a very shallow person.	She is shallow and superficial, and she finds it hard to relate to her husband.
evp	shameful	adjective	1	C1	Something shameful is bad and should make you feel embarrassed and guilty.	shameful scenes	What a shameful way of wasting natural resources!
evp	shampoo	noun	1	A2	a liquid substance that you use to wash your hair	an anti-dandruff shampoo	I think the soap and the shampoo are in the bathroom.
evp	shape	noun	1	B1	the physical form of something made by the line around its outer edge	a circular/rectangular shape	Well, it looks like yours, you know, the same size and shape.
evp	shape	noun	2	B2	in good/bad, etc. health or condition	She runs every day so she's in great shape.	I am of the opinion that if you are in good shape and the distance is not too much, you should leave the car at home and use the bike.
evp	shape	noun	3	B2	to stay healthy and physically strong	It's important to keep in shape.	We want to keep in shape, and we are interested in a gym - do you have one or is there one close to there?
evp	shape	noun	4	C2	many different types of people or things	We saw people there of all shapes and sizes.	Personal challenges come in all shapes and sizes.
evp	shape	noun	5	C2	not healthy or physically strong	Since I stopped riding my bike, I've gotten out of shape.	I no longer run and it has been more than a year since the last time I raced, so I am out of shape.
evp	shape	noun	6	C2	to start to develop and become more clear or certain	The project is slowly beginning to take shape.	It is high time that their dreams took shape!
evp	shape	verb	1	C2	to influence the way that something develops	Many people are not able to shape their own destinies.	All these experiences have shaped my personality and I am said to be sociable and understanding, especially when I am in contact with foreigners.
evp	share	verb	1	A2	to have or use something at the same time as someone else	Bill and I shared an office for years.	There are two beds because I share my room with a friend.
evp	share	verb	2	A2	to divide something between two or more people	Do you want to a piece of pie with me?	We shared one big cake.
evp	share	verb	3	B1	If two or more people or things share a feeling, quality or experience, they both or all have the same feeling, quality or experience.	We share an interest in sailing.	Her name is Gulia and I met her at the University. She is very nice, and we share many interests, so we gave each other our phone numbers.
evp	share	verb	4	B2	If two or more people share an activity, they each do some of it.	It’s a long trip – why don’t we share the driving	Ask your employer and other colleagues to share the work.
evp	share	verb	5	C1	to tell someone your problems/thoughts/ideas, etc.	Would you like to share your thoughts with the group, Donald?	I have received your letter asking for my opinion about the Conference and have decided to write and share some of my thoughts.
evp	share	noun	1	B2	a part of something that has been divided	The total bill for the three of us comes to $90, so your share is $30.	
evp	share	noun	2	C2	a lot of something and enough of it, usually something bad	We've had our fair share of rain already this summer.	It wasn't as if Jean hadn't seen his fair share of dead bodies, but these ones were far more, well, disgusting, than anything before.
evp	share	noun	3	C2	one of the equal parts that the value of a company is divided into when it is owned by a group of people	She wants to buy shares of stock in that company.	It is no longer the consumer but the shareholder who must be kept happy, in order to keep the share price high, and the simple worker pays the price.
evp	shark	noun	1	B1	a large fish with very sharp teeth	a great white shark	By the way, this ocean was full of sharks, our guide said.
evp	sharp	adjective	1	B1	having a very thin or pointed edge that can cut things	a sharp knife	My heart was broken by a knife, a sharp, hot knife, but I don't feel pain, I don't feel anything, I just want to die and forget about everything.
evp	sharp	adjective	2	B2	a sudden and very large increase or reduction in something	a sharp drop in temperature	If you have in mind my recommendations you will see a sharp increase in the number of students.
evp	sharp	adjective	3	B2	quick to notice and understand things	a sharp mind	She is an elderly woman who seems to be very weak but with an extremely sharp mind.
evp	sharp	adjective	4	C1	A sharp image is very clear.	a photograph in sharp focus	Quite the opposite, FFIX features beautiful pre-rendered 3D landscapes, along with real time characters: words are useless for describing such an achievement: the colors are vivid, sharp, the animations are smooth...
evp	sharp	adjective	5	C2	a very big and noticeable difference between two things	These luxurious surroundings were a sharp contrast to his home life.	Always willing to accomodate the need of the customers, the service of "Zithos" draws a sharp contrast with the often insolent and discourteous conduct of employees in other restaurants.
evp	sharp	adjective	6	C2	a sudden, short, strong pain	I felt a sharp pain in my leg.	When she had dialed the number and the signals were coming through she felt rather dizzy and then a sharp pain in her stomach.
evp	sharp	adjective	7	C2	a sudden large change in the direction you are traveling	The vehicle went off the road at a sharp bend.	While my aunt was slowing down at a sharp bend, I distracted her and she lost control of the car.
evp	sharp	adverb	1	C1	exactly at the stated time	The performance will begin at 7:30 sharp.	You have to wake him up at 8:00 AM sharp.
evp	sharpen	verb	1	C2	to make something sharper	to sharpen a knife/pencil	For example, to write properly with a pencil, you need to sharpen it, but, for what purpose are you sharpening it?
evp	sharpen	verb	2	C2	to make something better or stronger	Recent changes have sharpened competition between the airlines.	In fact, teachers and professors give us the opportunity to broaden our knowledge, sharpen our critical thought and in general to cultivate our mind and soul.
evp	sharply	adverb	1	B2	quickly and suddenly	Interest rates rose/fell sharply last month.	In the last few years, the trend of owning a cell phone has increased sharply.
evp	shattered	adjective	1	C2	very upset	She was absolutely shattered when she failed the exam.	How many times have we confessed to ourselves that we feel emotionally shattered just because we cannot buy the all the rage luxurious bag on which we set our eyes the other day?
evp	shave	verb	1	B1	to cut hair off your face or body with a razor	John shaves twice a day.	The other men shave the man who is getting married.
evp	shed	noun	1	B2	a small building, usually made of wood, used for storing things	a garden shed	It was hidden in a shed that hardly anybody ever entered.
evp	shed	verb	1	C1	to cry	I shed a few tears when he left.	She was too preoccupied to talk to anybody and she had shed so many tears that she could cry no more.
evp	shed	verb	2	C2	to provide new information about something that makes it easier to understand	As an economist, he was able to shed some light on the situation.	A study of them might shed light on this unique process of adaptation, and may help improve it in the future.
evp	sheep	noun	1	A1	a farm animal whose skin is covered with wool	This cheese is made from sheep's milk.	Scotland is a beautiful country, there are a lot of lochs and sheep.
evp	sheer	adjective	1	C1	used to emphasize how strong a feeling or quality is	a look of sheer delight/joy	My mind was filled with nothing else but the sheer joy about soon becoming acquainted with something entirely new and completely unfamiliar plus the eager anticipation about meeting my host-family.
evp	sheer	adjective	2	C1	used to emphasize the large size or amount of something	The delays are due to the sheer volume of traffic.	Allow me to start by saying that one day, which may not lie so far off in the future, people will visit the buildings which were formerly known as "Educational Institutions" like we visit museums today to gape at the sheer size of the Dinosaurs...
evp	sheer	adjective	3	C2	very steep	a sheer cliff face	Mountaineering takes you on a swaying journey through stark contrasts, from the serenity of a peaceful dense forest to sheer cliff edges and peaks.
evp	shelf	noun	1	A2	a flat, horizontal board used to put things on, often attached to a wall or inside a cabinet	a glass shelf	I think I have left it on the shelf in your bedroom.
evp	shell	noun	1	B2	the hard outer covering of some creatures and of eggs, nuts, or seeds	Brazil nuts have very hard shells.	Mainly I collect books, postcards, dolls, silver bracelets and sea shells.
evp	shelter	noun	1	B2	a place that protects you from bad weather or danger	an emergency shelter	We all ran to hide in the little shelter we had built.
evp	shelter	noun	2	B2	protection from bad weather or danger	We took shelter from the rain in a doorway.	John told me it was a place where we could find shelter.
evp	shelter	noun	3	C2	to go under a cover or inside a building to be protected from bad weather or danger	They took cover under a tree to shelter from the rain.	
evp	shield	noun	1	C2	a large, flat object that police officers and soldiers hold in front of their bodies to protect themselves	The police protected themselves with shields.	The breed of white-skinned men that, every season, crammed in cars, campers, buses, boats or charter planes, leave their lands to ravage distant shores toting cameras and sun block as the barbarians of old held sword and shield.
evp	shield	verb	1	C1	to protect someone or something from something dangerous or unpleasant	to shield your eyes from the sun	On the other hand, children raised by wealthy families are believed to be so "well-pampered" that they are shielded from the harshness of real problems - such as poverty or malnutrition.
evp	shift	verb	1	C1	to change an idea, attitude, etc.	We are trying to shift the emphasis from curing illness to preventing it.	Since the 1990s, though, the situation has shifted.
evp	shift	verb	2	C1	to move to another place or position	The wind shifted to the east.	Even with the absence of cars in city centers, with people parking their cars in suburbs, we can now see new traffic problems, which have shifted from the city centers to suburbs.
evp	shift	noun	1	B2	a period of work in a place such as a factory or hospital, or the people who do that work	As the night shift leaves, the day shift arrives.	I worked there in two shifts, in the mornings and in the evenings, for approximately 8-10 hours a day.
evp	shift	noun	2	C1	a change in something	There has been a dramatic shift in public opinion on this matter.	Proposal: Improving Zurich's transport and housing facilities. Census results of the last three decades have shown a shift in families' preferences on where to live.
evp	shine	verb	1	B1	to produce bright light	The sun was shining brightly through the window.	The weather was good and the sun was shining.
evp	shine	verb	2	C1	If a surface shines, it reflects light, and if you shine it, you make it reflect light.	She polished her shoes until they shone.	I was so glad to see that little key shining in that box.
evp	shine	verb	3	C2	to do something very well, usually better than other people.	It is in art that he really shines.	Hard-working, intelligent, brave children can make the country shine in future.
evp	shine	verb	4	C2	If your eyes or face shine, you look happy, healthy, or excited.	His eyes were shining with excitement.	For if we refer back to the poem, Mother Teresa certainly displays all of the qualities mentioned in that poem: on most of the photos showing her, she is smiling radiantly, her wrinkled face shining with bliss.
evp	shiny	adjective	1	B1	A shiny surface is bright because it reflects light.	beautiful shiny hair	I prefer shiny tops and blue trousers.
evp	ship	noun	1	A2	a large boat that carries people or goods by sea	a sailing ship	I will go there by ship.
evp	shirt	noun	1	A1	a piece of clothing worn on the top part of the body, often made of thin material like cotton and fastened with buttons down the front	a striped/white shirt	Please wear your old shirt.
evp	shiver	verb	1	B2	to shake because you are cold or frightened	She shivered from the cold.	She was shivering not only because of the cold, but also because she had no idea what she was going to tell him.
evp	shiver	noun	1	C2	a shaking of your body because you are cold, ill, or frightened	"The temperature is down to 12 degrees," she said with a shiver.	No sooner had she open this letter than she felt a shiver of fear.
evp	shiver	noun	2	C2	to make you feel afraid or excited	The sound of his voice sent shivers down my spine.	Simply looking at her sent shivers down his spine - there was the love of his life, the dearest woman on good old Earth, that he's never met before.
evp	shock	noun	1	B1	a big, unpleasant surprise	We got a nasty shock when he gave us the bill.	I was in shock. I read the letter again and again, the last part of the text said "Don't forget."
evp	shock	noun	2	C2	a sudden, painful feeling that you get when electricity flows through your body	I got a shock from the plug.	When their eyes met each others, both sensed some kind of electric shock, and they knew they were made for each other.
evp	shock	noun	3	C2	a sudden movement caused by an explosion, accident, etc.	Further shocks have been felt in the area today.	
evp	shock	verb	1	B2	to surprise and upset someone	The ads were designed to shock - that was the whole point of the campaign.	They hardly could believe it, although that American woman always wants to shock them...
evp	shocked	adjective	1	B1	very surprised and upset	After his announcement, there was shocked silence.	I was surprised and shocked.
evp	shocking	adjective	1	B1	offensive, upsetting or immoral	The book was considered shocking when it was first published.	The news was shocking but at the same time this fact will change our life.
evp	shoe	noun	1	A1	a strong covering for the foot, often made of leather	flat/high-heeled shoes	For your friend you can buy for example new shoes, trousers, maybe a hat.
evp	shoot	verb	1	B1	to fire a weapon or injure or kill a person or animal by firing a weapon at them	If he's not armed, don't shoot.	We really had a good time, but when we were coming back home a man, whose a face I couldn't see, shot Ana and she fell down on the street.
evp	shoot	verb	2	B1	to try to score points in sports such as basketball by hitting, kicking, or throwing the ball toward the goal	He shot from the middle of the court and still managed to score.	A[fter] I shot my first goal for this team they started to talk to me.
evp	shoot	verb	3	C1	to use a camera to record a movie or video or to take a photograph	We shot four reels of film in Egypt.	Britney's was shot in a studio and she, hypothetically, was o] Mars. (762699; Certificate in Advanced English; Greece; C1 EFFECTIVE OPERATIONAL PROFICIENCY; 2000; Greek; Fail
evp	shoot	verb	4	C2	to move somewhere very quickly	She shot across the road without looking.	
evp	shooting	noun	1	B2	when a gun is fired, or when someone is injured or killed by a bullet from a gun	We heard some shooting in the night.	He liked shooting very much and once he went in]t the forest he didn't come back.
evp	shop	noun	1	A2	a store or other place where you can buy things or a service	a gift/flower shop	I have a part-time job as waitress in a coffee shop, and I don't really have time to look for a history teacher.
evp	shop	verb	1	B1	to buy things in stores	I like to shop at the Gap for clothes.	I'd like to go out with you to shop for clothes.
evp	shopping	noun	1	A1	the activity of buying things from shops	The store is open for late night shopping on Wednesdays.	She likes to go shopping with a friend.
evp	shore	noun	1	B1	the area of land along the edge of the sea or a lake	You can walk for miles along the shore.	We were on the fourth floor, where you can see the sea shore and also the mountains behind.
evp	short	adjective	1	A1	small in length, distance or height	a short skirt	She is quite short, and she has got long, curly black hair, and black eyes.
evp	short	adjective	2	A1	continuing for a small amount of time	a short film/visit	It's a short time but we are very busy because we do many exercises.
evp	short	adjective	3	A2	A short book or other piece of writing has few pages or words.	a short e-mail/letter	Dear Sue This is a short note to tell you that I have a new house.
evp	short	adjective	4	B1	to not have enough of something	to be short of space/time	Because I was short of money, I said yes.
evp	short	adjective	5	B2	describes a name that is used as a shorter form of a name	Her name's Jo - it's short for Josephine.	There is even a strange disease called Chronic Fatigue Syndrom[e] (CFS for short).
evp	short	adjective	6	C1	only a short time before something happens	I had to give a speech on very short notice.	If required, I could additionally find time on week nights, however due to my professional duties I may have to cancel on short notice.
evp	short	noun	1	C1	in a few words	In short, we need more staff.	In short, ancient Chinese poems, mainly from the Jang D[yna]sty, constitute the background for Chinese culture and set a touchstone for judgement in our life.
evp	short	adverb	1	C1	to mention only the final result or point of something without going into other details	To make a long story short, he never played baseball again.	To make a long story short, my mother turned out to be an understanding person.
evp	short	adverb	2	C2	to have to stop doing something before it is finished	They had to cut their vacation short when her mother was taken ill.	
evp	short	adverb	3	C2	to not reach a particular level, but only by a small amount	Sales for the first half of this year fell just short of the target.	Furthermore, it cannot be denied that public transport falls short of the target set during the planning process.
evp	short	adverb	4	C2	to fail to achieve something	His behavior falls short of what we expect.	This routine was really wearing me out, but, I didn't want to fall short of my parents' expectations.
evp	short	adverb	5	C2	to almost do something but decide not to do it	She stopped short of accusing him of lying.	
evp	shortage	noun	1	B2	when there is not enough of something	There's a shortage of food and shelter for the earthquake survivors.	And there is a shortage of parking facilities. My opinion is that we need new parking facilities near to the city; parking docks, parking areas, etc.
evp	shortcoming	noun	1	C1	a fault	I like him despite his shortcomings.	However, there were a few shortcomings I would like to mention.
evp	shorten	verb	1	C1	to become shorter or to make something shorter	Smoking shortens your life.	Maybe we could shorten the free day to half a day and make use of the other half to bring them out for some sightseeing and familiarization.
evp	shorts	noun	1	A2	a short pair of pants that stop above or at the knees	running/gym shorts	Why don't you wear your old T-shirt with some faded jeans or shorts?
evp	shortsighted	adjective	1	C2	showing a lack of thought for what might happen in the future	It’s shortsighted to spend all your money and not save for the future.	I think that it is a little bit shortsighted to project everything that seems not likely to be done during our “active” time as workers into the future "when we will have time enough."
evp	short-term	adjective	1	B2	lasting a short time, or relating to a short period of time	short-term memory	Setting up restricted areas for animals is a nice idea, but due to the overall pollution, it is only a short-term solution.
evp	shot	noun	1	B2	when a bullet is fired from a gun or other weapon	He fired four shots.	Suddenly he heard a shot and the lights went out.
evp	shot	noun	2	B2	when someone tries to score points in sports such as basketball by throwing or hitting the ball	Roberts sank two foul shots to win the game.	I enjoy this sport because it forces me to improve my self control when playing: if I miss a shot, I have to stay very calm because it's the best way to achieve the next shot.
evp	shot	noun	3	B2	a photograph	I got/took some really good shots of the harbor at sunset.	[A] few months ago I had the chance to work abroad and see some of the Middle Eastern countries, where I took a lot of good shots.
evp	shoulder	noun	1	B1	one of the two parts of your body where your arms join your neck	The baby laid his head on her shoulder.	The name of the movie was Ghost Ship. It was a horror movie but it was so boring that she slept on my shoulder.
evp	shoulder	noun	2	C2	someone who gives you sympathy when you are upset	I always had a shoulder to cry on.	I am always there for her and I know I will always have a shoulder to cry on.
evp	shoulder	noun	3	C2	to blame other people for something bad that has happened to you and continue to feel angry about it	She's always had a real chip on her shoulder because she didn't go to college.	I suppose that I have a chip on my shoulder!
evp	shout	verb	1	A2	to say something very loudly	"Look out!" she shouted.	We shouted loud for the red team to win.
evp	shout	noun	1	B1	when you say something very loudly or make a very loud sound with your voice	He heard an angry shout.	The only noise we could hear was the shouts of the heroes fighting with terrible monsters coming from space...
evp	shovel	noun	1	C2	a tool with a long handle and a wide, metal part at one end used for digging and moving loose material	a snow shovel	They were equipped with a shovel and a bucket and dressed in shorts and T-shirt[s].
evp	show	verb	1	A1	to let someone look at something	I want to show you this new book I just bought.	I don't like showing my I.D. card every morning.
evp	show	verb	2	B1	to give information in a book, on a website, on a piece of equipment, etc.	The pictures show two different sports. Talk to your partner about which you would prefer and why.	So it would be very kind of you to send me an information sheet or a brochure about your club and a timetable which shows the courses and the meetings.
evp	show	verb	3	B1	to teach someone how to do something by explaining it or by doing it yourself while they watch	She showed me how to use the new bookkeeping program.	Before the performance I brought the spectators to their seats and then an instructor showed me how to operate the spotlights.
evp	show	verb	4	B2	If numbers, results, facts, etc. show something, they prove that it is true.	Research shows that 40 percent of the program's viewers are aged over 55.	Experiments have even shown some astonishing results, that apes for example have the same abilities as humans.
evp	show	verb	5	B2	to express a feeling so that other people are able to notice it	He finds it difficult to show affection.	I think a face can show so much and some day I hope I could become a photographer.
evp	show	verb	6	C1	to be easy or possible to see, or to make something easy or possible to see	The sadness really shows on her face.	Their hair was turning gray and their faces showed the first wrinkles.
evp	show	verb	7	B1	to go with someone and show them a place	Alejandro offered to show her around Mexico City.	I can take a few days off work and show you around the city.
evp	show	verb	8	B2	to try to make people admire your abilities or achievements in a way which other people find annoying	She only bought that sports car to show off and prove she could afford one.	You can even show off a bit to your relatives and friends.
evp	show	verb	9	B1	to arrive somewhere	I invited him for eight o'clock, but he didn't show up until nine-thirty.	I took him to his father and then my friend, Maria, showed up.
evp	show	noun	1	A2	a television or radio program or a theater performance	a TV show	You can see lots of traditional shows there, it will be very interesting for you.
evp	show	noun	2	B2	an event at which a group of similar things are brought together for the public to see	a fashion/flower show	I do not know if it is possible to make any changes, but we saw an ad in "Time Out" magazine last week about a fashion show which we would like to see.
evp	show	noun	3	C1	being shown to the public	Her designs are currently on show at the Museum of Modern Art.	One of the facilities that really makes a difference is the Art Gallery, with its great exhibition on show, as well as the Art Library.
evp	shower	noun	1	A1	the act of washing yourself while standing under a flow of water	I want to take a quick shower before we go out.	I have to wake up at 7.30 AM. I run to the bathroom to take a shower.
evp	shower	noun	2	A1	a piece of bathroom equipment that you stand under to wash your whole body	He likes to sing in the shower.	And there are showers and a sauna you will be able to use any time after the gym.
evp	shower	noun	3	B1	a short period of rain or light snow	thunder showers	Well the weather was really good during the morning but there were some showers during the afternoon.
evp	shower	verb	1	B2	to wash standing under a shower	We all showered before breakfast.	Around six o'clock, she finally got up, showered, had breakfast and set off to work.
evp	shower	verb	2	C2	to give someone a lot of presents, praise, etc.	He showered her with expensive gifts.	As time passes the children start to see a pattern developing, every time that they request time or attention they are showered with expensive clothes or toys to compensate for the lack of it.
evp	shrewd	adjective	1	C2	good at judging situations and making decisions which give you an advantage	a shrewd politician	It was only much later that I realized what a shrewd investment on my parent's part this had been.
evp	shrimp	noun	1	B1	a small sea animal that you can eat, and which has a shell and ten legs	The grilled shrimp is delicious!	It has great food: fish, grilled meat, shrimp and delicious cakes and cookies.
evp	shrink	verb	1	B2	to become smaller, or to make something smaller	Your sweater will shrink if you wash it at too high a temperature.	After 5 seconds I started shrinking until I was as small as the smallest toe on my foot.
evp	shrug	verb	1	C2	to move your shoulders up and down to show that you do not care about something or that you do not know something	I told him we weren't happy with it but he just shrugged his shoulders.	Martina flushed to the roots of her hair and shrugged her shoulders.
evp	shudder	verb	1	C2	to shake, usually because you are thinking of something unpleasant	The sight of so much blood made him shudder.	She shuddered at the memory.
evp	shut	verb	1	A2	to close something, or to become closed	Would you shut the door, please?	The doors shut by them]selves
evp	shut	verb	2	B1	If a computer or machine shuts down or someone shuts it down, it stops operating.	Make sure you shut down your computer before you leave.	I was as happy as a lark. I shut down the computer and I called my mom to tell her about the good news.
evp	shut	verb	3	B2	If a business or organization shuts down or someone shuts it down, it closes.	The company plans to shut down four assembly plants and cut 10,000 jobs.	A great number of zoos ought to be shut down.
evp	shut	verb	4	B2	to stop talking or making a noise, or to make someone do this	I wish you'd shut up for a minute and listen to what the rest of us have to say.	You must still remember that time we walked along the street, singing blues and rock, it's incredible the way that people shouted at us to shut up.
evp	shut	adjective	1	B1	closed	Her office door was shut all day.	
evp	shut	adjective	2	B2	to not talk about something	If you don't keep your mouth shut, there'll be trouble.	She made every effort to keep her mouth shut but it disturbed her to be the only one to know the truth, apart from her brother.
evp	shuttle	noun	1	C1	a bus, train, plane, etc. which travels regularly between two places, usually a short distance	the Boston-New York shuttle	I am convinced that a center with less traffic and more pedestrianized areas will attract more other people. Especially if there is a parking opportunity outside of the center with well-o[r]ganised shuttle buses to the center.
evp	shy	adjective	1	B1	not confident, especially about meeting or talking to new people	He was too shy to ask her to dance with him.	I was a little shy at first, but I ended up talking too much!
evp	shyness	noun	1	C1	the state of being shy	When I met the movie star, I was overcome with shyness.	Some of them were encouraged by their work-fellows to overcome their initial shyness.
evp	sibling	noun	1	C2	a sister or brother	I have three siblings.	I am also lucky to have a sibling, an older sister, who took great care of me when we were children.
evp	sick	adjective	1	A2	not feeling well, or suffering from a disease	a sick child	Everybody went except Natalie because she was sick.
evp	sick	adjective	2	B2	to be bored with or annoyed about something that has been happening for a long time	I'm sick of people telling me how to run my life.	Michael was sick of seeing the same story happen all over again.
evp	sick	adjective	3	C2	cruel and unpleasant	He's got a sick mind.	Her sick mind was obsessed with the impunity that criminals were treated with at trials and with the corrupted judges that hold those trials, and decided she would kill all of them and put an end to the impunity.
evp	sick	adjective	4	C2	likely to vomit	I feel sick to my stomach.	
evp	sickness	noun	1	B2	when you are sick	I get motion sickness on a boat and sometimes on a plane, too.	The simple joy and happiness will help you to feel in good shape and keep away any sickness.
evp	side	noun	1	A2	one of the two parts that something would divide into if you drew a line down the middle	He likes to sleep on the right side of the bed.	It's an interesting place because the Lake has a road through which cars can go to the other side of the Lake.
evp	side	noun	2	A2	a flat outer surface of an object, especially one that is not the top or the bottom	The names of ships are usually painted on their sides.	It cost 152 Euro. It's black with silver stripes on the sides.
evp	side	noun	3	A2	an edge or border of something	A square has four sides.	We are going to paint one side of the room orange and the others white.
evp	side	noun	4	B1	the area next to something	I have a small table at/by the side of my bed.	Linda is by my side right now and she asks me to send you a warm hug.
evp	side	noun	5	B2	part of a situation that can be considered or dealt with separately	She looks after the financial side of things.	Finally, I think for me the most important thing is to enjoy life - don't be worried about little things and always find the funny side of each situation.
evp	side	noun	6	B2	a part of someone's character	She has a very practical side.	In fact the film describes the actions of this politician, also saying something not very "Politically Correct", but true: he reveals that no one is always good, everyone has a dark hidden side.
evp	side	noun	7	B2	If two things or people are side by side, they are next to each other.	We sat side by side on the sofa.	It is not rare to see two people walking side by side, both talking on the phone.
evp	side	noun	8	B2	If something moves from side to side, it moves from left to right and back again repeatedly.	swinging from side to side	I began to understand it when I went to Kenya in 1986, because I had the wonderful chance to look at the animals in their natural surroundings] without being in a cage, walking nervously from side to side.
evp	side	noun	9	B2	one of the people or groups who are arguing, fighting, or competing	Whose side is he on?	I hope you'll be on my side.
evp	side	noun	10	B2	a way of considering something, especially when there is disagreement about it	There are at least two sides to every question.	This shows the other side of technology.
evp	side	noun	11	C1	to find good things in a bad situation	Look on the bright side - no one was badly hurt.	I am quite self-confident and I usually look on the bright side, as I am not interested in pessimistic thoughts.
evp	side	noun	12	C1	A food served on the side is served separate from the other foods.	I’ll have the salad with the dressing on the side.	A common meal in my country will include soup and rice, a main dish is usually served with beans on the side and corn tortillas, all this is full of vitamins and calcium.
evp	side	noun	13	C2	to not use or deal with something now, but keep it for a later time	She put the papers to one side, intending to read them later.	
evp	side	noun	14	C2	in addition to your main job	She does some freelance work on the side.	At work, they gave her the worst jobs to do. She knew she didn't have much choice but she still tried to find something else on the side.
evp	side	noun	15	C2	the part of your family who are either your mother's relatives or your father's relatives	They tend to be tall on my mother's side of the family.	Both on my father's side as well as on my mother's side of the family we formed a close knit group.
evp	side	noun	16	C2	the two areas of your body from under your arms to the tops of your legs	Stand with your arms by your sides.	
evp	side	noun	17	C2	If you have someone at/by your side, they support you and help you.	With Dan at my side, I felt I could do anything.	She really needed someone by her side, someone to lean on and share her worries.
evp	side effect	noun	1	C1	another effect that a drug has on your body in addition to the main effect for which the doctor has given you the drug	Headaches are one side effect of this drug.	Now, we have come up with something called Phyto essence that is designed to overcome skin problems effectively without causing any harmful side effects.
evp	side effect	noun	2	C2	an extra result of a situation, especially one that you did not plan or expect	One side effect of getting a new job is that I can cycle to work and I've lost a lot of weight.	They seem to neglect the growing rate of unemployment and its possible side effects.
evp	sidewalk	noun	1	B1	a path with a hard surface along one or both sides of a street that people walk on	The sidewalk was blocked by a fallen tree branch.	When I was crossing the road I suddenly saw a beautiful woman o] the opposite sidewalk.
evp	sideways	adverb	1	C2	in a direction to the left or right, not forward or backward	The fence is leaning sideways.	Unaware of all the sideways glances and chatter that paused as she passed, she headed back toward the river.
evp	sigh	verb	1	B2	to breathe out slowly and noisily, often because you are annoyed or unhappy	She sighed deeply and sat down.	Having solid ground beneath her feet again she sighed with relief for having survived this adventure.
evp	sigh	noun	1	B2	the sound that is made when someone sighs	He read the letter and gave a deep sigh.	I entered the house with a deep sigh!
evp	sight	noun	1	B1	the ability to see	If your sight is poor, you should not drive a car.	She had lost her sight although doctors didn't know if it was forever.
evp	sight	noun	2	B1	places of interest, especially to visitors	We spent a two weeks in Rome looking at all the sights.	I have many plans, I want to show you all the remarkable sights in Georgia.
evp	sight	noun	3	B2	when you see someone or something	I faint at the sight of my own blood.	Just think; drinking our cold beers against the sight of the pounding waves and feeling the wind on our faces.
evp	sight	noun	4	B2	the area that it is possible for you to see	Keep your bags in sight at all times.	Dear Editor, This morning when I opened my newspaper, my eyes caught sight of an article called "Failure of festival", and I read it.
evp	sight	noun	5	B2	when you fall in love with someone the first time you meet	We were happened to be seated at the same table, and it was love at first sight!	We had first met the spring before and it was love at first sight.
evp	sight	noun	6	C1	when you first see or hear about something or someone	It may, at first sight, seem a surprising choice.	I must admit that, at first sight, I did not feel like reading it, but later I made up my mind and decided to accept your invitation.
evp	sight	noun	7	C2	to forget about an important idea or fact because you are thinking too much about other, less important things	We mustn't lose sight of the original aims of this project.	Little do we realize that in the process we lose sight of the fundamentals, which in this case is the protection of our environment.
evp	sight	noun	8	C2	to decide to achieve something	She's set her sights on becoming a doctor.	This resemblance was the final silent argument that convinced Wormold to promise Milly the expensive and beautiful horse she had set her sights on.
evp	sight	noun	9	C2	to see something suddenly, often only for a short time	He caught sight of himself in the mirror.	All we could see were people bursting into tears when they caught sight of his coffin.
evp	sightseeing	noun	1	A2	the activity of visiting places that are interesting because they are historic, famous, etc.	Did you do much sightseeing while you were in Paris?	I'd like to go sightseeing and eat Italian food.
evp	sign	noun	1	A2	a symbol or message in a public place that gives information or instructions	a stop sign	And it is easy to get there, just follow the sign.
evp	sign	noun	2	B1	something which shows that something is happening or that it exists or is true	Flowers are the first sign of spring.	The bride and the groom meet at the church because it's a bad sign if the groom sees the bride before the ceremony.
evp	sign	noun	3	B1	a movement you make to give someone information or tell them what to do	She pointed to her watch as a sign that it was getting late and she wanted to leave.	She looked at Paul and made a strange sign with her fingers.
evp	sign	noun	4	B2	a written or printed mark which has a standard meaning	+ and - are mathematical signs.	
evp	sign	noun	5	B2	If there is no sign of someone or something, you cannot see them.	By eight o'clock, there was still no sign of Janne.	He was supposed to come on Wednesday just like you told me but there was no sign of him.
evp	sign	verb	1	B1	to write your name on something to show that you created it or to show that you agree to it	to sign a letter/form/check/contract/agreement	It was signed "Fat Boy".
evp	sign	verb	2	B1	to arrange to take part in an organized activity	I've signed up for evening classes at the community college.	If you are interested in other activities, just sign up for them on the notice board.
evp	signal	noun	1	B2	a movement, light, or sound that gives information, or tells people what to do	At a signal from their teacher, the children all held up their flags.	The signal was given. We started side by side but soon I overtook him.
evp	signal	noun	2	B2	a series of light waves or sound waves which are sent to a radio, television, cell phone, etc.	I can't get a phone signal here.	On the other hand you can face problems with signal transmission.
evp	signal	verb	1	C2	to make a movement that gives information or tells people what to do	He signaled left, then turned the truck slowly.	He signalled his trusty and mostly silent cameraman to follow him and decided to go underground. (761364; Certificate of Proficiency in English; Spain; C2 MASTERY; 2000; Catalan; Pass
evp	signature	noun	1	B1	your name written by yourself, always in the same way, usually to show that something has been written or agreed by you	Please put your signature in this box.	I thought it was a joke but when I saw the signature I knew it was for real.
evp	significance	noun	1	C1	the importance or meaning of something	I still don't understand the significance of his remark.	In spite of the progress achieved in promoting the social status of women, one should not overestimate the significance of these achievements to ordinary women's careers.
evp	significant	adjective	1	B2	important or noticeable	There has been a significant increase in the number of women students in recent years.	One of the most significant inventions is the computer.
evp	signpost	noun	1	B1	a sign by the side of the road that gives information about routes and distances	There are signposts at the edge of the parking lot showing which paths lead to the lake and which to the tent sites and the camp store.	There were no signposts and there was no one to ask where he could find a place to stay.
evp	silence	noun	1	B1	when there is no sound	The three men ate in silence.	It isn't too big and it's] quiet enough and I like it so much because of the silence and the beauty of this place]
evp	silence	noun	2	B2	a period of time in which there is complete quiet or no speaking	There were long silences during the discussion.	The progress of the story is very slow, but the author is describing hard conditions, hard characters and long silences, which is quite typical of his way of writing]
evp	silence	noun	3	C2	a period of time when someone says nothing about a particular subject or when someone does not communicate with someone at all	She ended her silence yesterday and spoke to a TV reporter about the accident.	How dared he call her after such a long silence and order her what to do?
evp	silent	adjective	1	B1	without any sound	The empty house was completely silent.	The countryside, like Chianti, is peaceful and silent.
evp	silent	adjective	2	B2	without talking	I have remained silent till now, Mike, but I have to tell you what I think.	When they were there, Aunt Patience was obliged by her husband to go to her room and remain silent.
evp	silently	adverb	1	B2	without making any noise	She wept silently as she read the letter.	After waiting silently for two minutes, she dropped the phone.
evp	silk	noun	1	B1	a type of cloth which is light and smooth	a silk dress	Normally, I would prefer my blouses to be made of cotton or silk, as these materials make me feel comfortable.
evp	silly	adjective	1	B1	showing little thought or judgment	a silly question	They had some very silly games.
evp	silly	adjective	2	B1	small and not important	She gets upset over such silly things.	Pe[o]ple are so worried about silly things, about how to make money or how to be popular and they forget about what really matters.
evp	silver	noun	1	A2	a valuable, shiny, gray-white metal used to make coins and jewelry	We gave Alison and Tom a dish made of solid silver as a wedding present.	It was a beautiful ring, it was made of silver with a diamond on it.
evp	silver	adjective	1	A2	made of silver, or of the color of silver	a silver ring	I got beautiful presents, but my favorite is a silver ring.
evp	silverware	noun	1	C2	knives, forks, and spoons	Do we have enough silverware for twelve people?	All the tablecloths are white and the silverware is beautiful.
evp	similar	adjective	1	B1	If something or someone is similar to another thing or person, they have many things the same, although they are not exactly the same.	My father and I have similar views on politics.	I can understand how you are feeling because at our age, every teenager has similar problems.
evp	similarity	noun	1	B2	when two things or people are similar, or a way in which they are similar	I can see the similarity between you and your mother.	Another similarity between the two was their appearance.
evp	similarly	adverb	1	C1	in a similar way	The children were similarly dressed.	For instance, in northeast China, Australian visitors can learn the specific tea culture from local people. [...] Similarly, Chinese visitors can know the Australian wine culture by visiting the wineries.
evp	simple	adjective	1	A2	easy to do or to understand	The instructions were written in simple English.	If you need some help, I can help you with the organization of the titles and other simple things.
evp	simple	adjective	2	B1	plain or not complicated	a simple life	You can eat simple food and drink good local wine.
evp	simple	adjective	3	B2	used to describe the one important fact, truth, etc.	We didn't go swimming for the simple reason that the water was too cold.	There is a very simple reason for me to choose live music. I really enjoy going to places in which you can see a good concert.
evp	simplicity	noun	1	C1	the quality of being simple	The advantage of the plan is its simplicity.	Video facilities are rated as quite good by the students, and computer programs have gained almost everybody's compliments for their simplicity and efficacy.
evp	simplification	noun	1	C2	the process of making something more simple	I think these rules need some simplification.	It might be a simplification and an exaggeration, but as the word says: "The road of excess leads to the tower of wisdom", and although the idea expresses itself in crude terms, I do think there is some truth to it.
evp	simplify	verb	1	C1	to make something less complicated and therefore easier to do or understand	the new, simplified tax system	The technology has probably simplified life i] a way that no one could believe was possible about 20 years ago.
evp	simply	adverb	1	B2	used to emphasize what you are saying	We simply don't have the time.	That's simply unbelievable!
evp	simply	adverb	2	B2	only	A lot of people miss out on this opportunity simply because they don't know about it.	I am very interested in fashion, simply because it is a style, an attitude, a way of life.
evp	simply	adverb	3	B2	in a way that is not complicated or difficult to understand	He explained it as simply as he could, but the class still didn't understand.	Try to organize your work as simply as possible.
evp	simulation	noun	1	C1	a model of something that can be used to teach someone how to do something, or the process of making such a model	Students can study a computer simulation of these atomic processes.	Civili[z]ation is one of the best-selling simulation games of all time.
evp	simultaneous	adjective	1	C1	If two or more things are simultaneous, they happen or exist at the same time.	simultaneous translation	The people I most admire are simultaneous interpreters.
evp	simultaneously	adverb	1	B2	at the same time	Two children answered the teacher's question simultaneously.	The floods of information pour towards you and go through your brain simultaneously.
evp	sin	noun	1	C2	something which is against the rules of a religion	the sin of greed/pride	Nurses and doctors in white or green overalls, smells of drugs and sweating patients, moans of pain during the night, all that was like sending me to hell for a sin I knew nothing about.
evp	sin	noun	2	C2	something that you should not do because it is morally wrong	You've only got one life and it's a sin to waste it.	It would be a sin not to grasp the opportunities one is given.
evp	since	adverb	1	B2	from a time in the past until a later time or until now	Emma went to work in New York a year ago, and we haven't seen her since.	It was my grandmother who introduced me to teddy bears and she wanted me to love them as she did. When she died, I got all her bears and have been taking care of them ever since.
evp	sincere	adjective	1	C1	honest and saying or showing what you really feel or believe	He seems to be sincere.	During these years I have also found her to be honest, sincere, hard-working and imaginative.
evp	sincere	adjective	2	C1	used to add emphasis when you are expressing a feeling	The family wishes to express their sincere thanks to all the staff at the hospital.	Again, sincere gratitude for your kind work.
evp	sincerity	noun	1	C2	the quality of being sincere	There was no doubting his sincerity.	His sincerity shines through from his poems and it still moves us.
evp	sing	verb	1	A1	to make musical sounds with your voice	The children sang two songs by Schubert at the school concert.	We sang songs and danced.
evp	singer	noun	1	A2	a person who sings, especially as a job	Kiri Te Kanawa is a famous singer from New Zealand.	He is my favorite singer and I have all his CD[s].
evp	singing	noun	1	A2	the activity of singing	She's taking singing lessons.	My hobbies are singing, dancing, skating, basketball and so on.
evp	single	adjective	1	A2	not married	a single woman/man/person	He's 25 years old and single.
evp	single	adjective	2	A2	for only one person	a single bed	I am selling a single bed.
evp	single	adjective	3	B1	someone who has a child or children, but no wife or husband living with them	Many single parents find it difficult to arrange for child care.	She's a single parent, with 3 children from Australia.
evp	single	adjective	4	B1	used to emphasize that you are talking about each one of a group or series	I call him every single day.	But we used to play together every single day!
evp	single	adjective	5	B2	only one	There was a single light in the corner of the room.	The night was calm and not a single sound was disturbing her.
evp	singular	adjective	1	A2	The singular form of a word is used to talk about one person or thing. For example, "car" is the singular form of "cars" and "woman" is the singular form of "women."	a singular ending/form/noun/verb	
evp	singular	noun	1	A2	a word or form that shows that there is only one of something	The singular of "children" is "child."	
evp	sink	verb	1	B1	to go down or make something go down below the surface of water or a soft substance and not come back up	The Titanic was a passenger ship which sank to the bottom of the ocean in 1912.	They were so scared that the boat would sink...
evp	sink	verb	2	B2	to move or make something move to a lower position or level	The sun glowed red as it sank slowly below the horizon.	Dora's face grew pale and she sank into a chair.
evp	sink	noun	1	A2	a bowl that is fixed to the wall in a kitchen or bathroom in which you wash dishes, your hands, etc.	a bathroom/kitchen sink	I put my watch on the sink in the bathroom.
evp	sip	verb	1	C1	to drink, taking only a small amount at a time	She sipped her champagne.	The reasons for my choice are far from being profound: maybe it is only the desire of going back to a time when women [...] could spend all the time brushing their hair or sipping tea, without feeling guilty for wasting their time.
evp	sip	noun	1	C2	a small amount of drink taken into the mouth	He took a sip of his coffee and then continued.	It was a regular afternoon, like all the other summer afternoons in the city, when you gasp for breath and are willing to reveal the secrets of your best friends for a sip of water.
evp	sir	noun	1	B1	used as a formal and polite way of speaking to a man, especially one who you are providing a service to or who is in a position of authority	Would you like to see the menu, sir?	Suddenly, the man with the hat, sunglasses, and mask came to me and said "sir, what is your name?"
evp	sir	noun	2	B2	a way of beginning a formal letter to a man whose name you do not know	Dear Sir, I am writing to...	Dear Sir or Madam, With reference to your advertisement in the Wall Street Journal [...]
evp	siren	noun	1	C2	a piece of equipment that makes a loud sound as a warning	a police siren	Almost immediately he heard the police sirens wailing and saw two officers spring from the panda car.
evp	sister	noun	1	A1	a girl or woman who has the same parents as another person	Sophie and Emily are sisters.	I was there with my parents and sister.
evp	sister-in-law	noun	1	B2	a woman married to your brother, or the sister of your husband or wife	My sister-in-law is a great cook.	So, I and a sister-in-law had to stay with our little sons without any entertainment at the hotel.
evp	sit	verb	1	A1	to be in a position with the weight of your body on your bottom and the top part of your body up, for example, on a chair	Emma was sitting on a stool.	[It] is so boring, because we just sit and listen to the teachers.
evp	sit	verb	2	A2	to move your body into a sitting position after you have been standing	She came over and sat beside me.	After one or two hours dancing, I had to sit down and drink.
evp	sit	verb	3	C2	to make someone sit somewhere	She sat me down and told me the bad news.	I wasn't prepared at all when my parents sat me down to tell me that my mother had been diagnosed with cancer, more specifically, a brain tumor.
evp	site	noun	1	A2	a Web site	He visits a lot of music sites.	You can visit our site on the Internet or phone us at 332679.
evp	site	noun	2	B1	a place where something is, was, or will be built, or where something happened, is happening, or will happen	a building site	I work as a civil engineer on a site.
evp	site	noun	3	C1	inside a factory, office building, etc.	There are two restaurants on site.	A small period of training on site is required a few days before the beginning of the job itself and how many interesting people you will meet!
evp	situation	noun	1	B1	the set of things that are happening and the conditions that exist at a particular time and place	the economic/political situation	It was a weird situation.
evp	six	noun	1	A1	the number 6	Look for a bus with a number six on the front of it.	My place has six rooms.
evp	sixteen	noun	1	A1	the number 16	fourteen, fifteen, sixteen, seventeen	Hi! My name is Ian and I'm sixteen years old.
evp	size	noun	1	A2	how large or small something or someone is	The size of those trees is amazing.	My new phone's got Bluetooth and camera. I like its small size because I can take it everywhere.
evp	size	noun	2	A2	one of the different measurements in which things, for example clothes, food containers, etc. are made	a size 14 dress	I have a beautiful blue and white coat to sell, size 16.
evp	size	noun	3	C2	many different types of people or things	We saw people there of all shapes and sizes.	Personal challenges come in all shapes and sizes.
evp	skate	noun	1	A2	a boot with a metal part on the bottom, used for moving across ice, or a boot with wheels on the bottom used for moving across the ground	a pair of ice skates	I want to sell a pair of skates that I bought two years ago.
evp	skate	verb	1	B1	to move using skates	The ice on the river is frozen enough to skate on.	We skated for two or three hours.
evp	skateboard	noun	1	A2	a board with wheels on the bottom, that you stand on and move forward by pushing one foot on the ground	I've got a new skateboard.	I got a video game and a beautiful skateboard.
evp	skateboarding	noun	1	A2	the activity of moving using a skateboard	We're going skateboarding at the park later.	My hobbies are skateboarding and listening to the radio.
evp	skating	noun	1	A2	the activity or sport of moving on skates	ice/inline/roller skating	I like playing volleyball, reading books and going skating with my friends.
evp	skeleton	noun	1	B2	the structure made of all the bones in the body of a person or animal	We found an old sheep skeleton up on the cliffs.	In the USA, they enjoy dressing up in costumes, most of the time as skeletons, witches or ghosts.
evp	skeleton	noun	2	C1	the smallest number of people that you need to keep an organization working	The Red Cross has withdrawn all but a skeleton staff from the country.	The life-rescuing services are on call and a skeleton staff remains in all hospitals.
evp	skeptical	adjective	1	C2	doubting that something is true or useful	They’re very skeptical of his motives.	Personally, I am very skeptical about this society's capacity to solve the homeless problem.
evp	sketch	noun	1	C1	a picture that you draw quickly and with few details	He did a quick sketch of the cat.	Picasso would start with a lot of preliminary sketches and then go on to paint his final picture where the main figures - a woman and a horse - are screaming in despair.
evp	sketch	noun	2	C1	a short piece of acting about a funny situation	They wrote most of their sketches themselves.	It's a partly live show, but it also contains earlier recorded "sketches," often with funny stunts.
evp	sketch	noun	3	C2	a short description of something without many details	He gave us a quick sketch of the situation.	Having seen the call for new subject proposals I'm sending you a preliminary sketch of two new courses.
evp	sketch	verb	1	C2	to give a short description with few details, especially of an idea or plan	I've sketched out some ideas for my new book.	The way I would bring up my own children, right now I'm not too sure if I'm ever going to have one or even more, wouldn't differ a great deal from the way I sketched out at the beginning.
evp	ski	noun	1	B1	one of a pair of long, thin pieces of wood or plastic that you wear on the bottom of boots to move over snow	a pair of skis	We stayed one week in a chalet near the ski resort.
evp	ski	verb	1	B1	to move over snow on skis	He skied down the hill.	There're two very good places where we can ski, and they aren't crowded!
evp	skiing	noun	1	A2	the sport of moving over snow on skis	We're going skiing next weekend.	Dear Jim, I have left my coat at your house. It's important because I'm going skiing tomorrow!
evp	skill	noun	1	B1	an ability to do a job or an activity well, especially because you have practiced it	Ruth had great management skills.	I want to improve my listening and speaking skills.
evp	skilled	adjective	1	B2	having the abilities needed to do an activity or job well	skilled workers/labor	I know you need some skilled people to build the boat and therefore I hope I can join your club to help you.
evp	skillful	adjective	1	B2	good at doing something	a skillful artist	Laura was a very skillful pianist.
evp	skillful	adjective	2	C1	done or made very well	skillful use of language	If the players do not play as a team, like fighting between players, refusing to pass balls to certain players, not following the tactics made by the couch, it can easily be imagined that such a team can not have a good result or even a skillful match.
evp	skin	noun	1	B1	the outer layer of a person or animal's body	dark/fair skin	She's got blue eyes and fair skin.
evp	skin	noun	2	B2	the outer layer of a fruit or vegetable	a banana/potato skin	So, I slipped on the banana skin, fell down and had an unpleasant accident.
evp	skip	verb	1	B2	to not do something that you usually do or that you should do	I think I'll skip lunch today - I'm not very hungry.	He felt a bit sick and so he skipped the meal.
evp	skip	verb	2	C1	to avoid reading or talking about something by starting to read or talk about the next thing instead	I usually skip the boring bits.	This sharpens your translating skills and your vocabulary (since you can't just skip words you don't understand even if you get the general idea).
evp	skirt	noun	1	A1	a piece of clothing for women and girls that hangs from the waist and does not have legs	She wore a skirt and blouse.	In the summer you don't need warm clothes, just a skirt and t-shirt and that's it.
evp	skull	noun	1	C2	the part of your head that is made of bone and which protects your brain	I fell and cracked my skull.	When she hit his head, like a batsman hitting a six, his skull crushed with an awfully crunchy noise.
evp	sky	noun	1	A2	the area above the earth in which clouds, the sun, and stars can be seen	a blue/cloudy/dark sky	I will use white and light blue, like the sky.
evp	slam	verb	1	B2	to close with great force, or to make something close with great force	The wind made the door slam shut.	Once the door slammed behind her, the tears came...
evp	slam	verb	2	B2	to put something somewhere or to hit something with great force	She slammed the phone down.	Then he slammed down the receiver.
evp	slang	noun	1	C1	informal language, often language that is only used by people who belong to a particular group	prison slang	That's because communication with natives and not experienced English teachers will probably make you enrich your idiomatic and slang vocabulary rather than your academic vocabulary.
evp	slap	verb	1	B2	to hit someone with the flat, inside part of your hand	She slapped his face.	She shouted and slapped my face.
evp	slap	noun	1	C2	something someone does that insults or upsets you	After all that hard work, losing my job was a real slap in the face.	My father noticed that and decided it was high time to take me down a peg or two. He used to work as a volunteer in a hospital for children dying for cancer. One day, he took me there. It was like a slap in the face - suddenly I saw a different world. It was a bleak world, without smiles and happy faces.
evp	slap	noun	2	C2	a hit with the flat, inside part of your hand	She slapped her knee and laughed.	Of course there will be moments where you have to mark out a border to the child by a firm grip on his arm or a slap on his bottom, but it shouldn't have to happen very often.
evp	slash	noun	1	B2	a mark (/) used in writing to separate words or numbers, often to show a choice of connection	Visit us at cambridge.org/esl and enter a word in the Dictionaries Online search box.	
evp	slaughter	noun	1	C2	when a lot of people or animals are killed in a cruel way	They were sickened by the slaughter they witnessed.	And I think this change must be appreciated both because of the fact that a vegetarian diet is healthier and because it prevents the slaughter of animals.
evp	slave	noun	1	B2	someone who is owned by someone else and has to work for them	I'm tired of being treated like a slave!	I know you're lazy sometimes but don't worry you don't have to work like a slave.
evp	slavery	noun	1	C1	the system of owning slaves, or the condition of being a slave	They campaigned for the abolition of slavery.	From the condition of slavery, the Greeks passed to life in a fully developed and democratic country.
evp	sleep	verb	1	A1	to be in the state of rest when your eyes are closed, your body is not active, and your mind is unconscious	Sleep well!	I watch television, I read magazines or I sleep.
evp	sleep	verb	2	C2	to wait until the next day before making a decision about something important so that you can think about it carefully	I didn't know what to say to Laura, so I decided to sleep on it.	
evp	sleep	verb	3	C2	to not have any sleep	I was so excited last night - I didn't sleep a wink.	Nevertheless, due to the fact that I hadn't slept a wink the previous night, I began to fall asleep.
evp	sleep	verb	4	C2	to have sex with someone	She accused him of sleeping with her friend.	Liza dreams of becoming a "real actress" and plays a very naive character who is willing to sleep with anyone who might lead her to success.
evp	sleep	noun	1	B1	the resting state in which the body is not active and the mind is unconscious	I have to get some sleep - I'm exhausted.	After that, I was very tired and went home to get some sleep.
evp	sleep	noun	2	B1	to succeed in sleeping	I was so worried, I couldn't get to sleep at all last night.	Since it's quite hot here I bought a fan, I have to use it at night otherwise I can't get to sleep.
evp	sleep	noun	3	B1	a period of sleeping	He fell into a deep sleep.	I need a sunny and friendly bedroom that gives me a relaxing sleep. Because a good sleep is an important thing to begin a new day.
evp	sleep	noun	4	C2	to worry about something	I know she's angry with me, but I'm not losing any sleep over it.	[There] was just one house, a magnificent mansion behind a high fence, that bothered me a bit. No one from there came to meet me. But in the hassle of the first few weeks I was simply too busy to lose any sleep over it.
evp	sleepy	adjective	1	B1	feeling tired and wanting to go to sleep	The heat had made me sleepy.	I felt sleepy during the film, but Yoshie enjoyed it]
evp	sleepy	adjective	2	C1	quiet and with little activity	a sleepy little town	I don't know much about it because it never got into my remote, sleepy village.
evp	sleeve	noun	1	B1	the part of a jacket, shirt, etc. that covers your arm	short/long sleeves	I also bought you a pink chiffon dress. It's a new fashionable one with high collar and short sleeves. (2125172; Preliminary English Test; Thailand; B1 THRESHOLD; 2006; Thai; Pass
evp	sleeve	noun	2	C2	to have a secret plan	They were worried he might have another nasty surprise up his sleeve.	In addition, I would never hit them - parents should always have something up their sleeve to find a humane solution.
evp	slender	adjective	1	C2	thin in an attractive way	a slender woman with long, red hair	On stage then appeared what I had dreamed of being, when I was a little girl, a princess-looking creature with long black hair, slender body and slow movements.
evp	slice	noun	1	A2	a flat piece of food that has been cut from a larger piece	a slice of bread/cake	And I kept a slice of the cake for you!
evp	slice	noun	2	C2	a part of something, such as an amount of money	We agreed before we made the deal that we'd both take an equal slice of the profit.	It is difficult to know that nowadays we can kill each other only for an idea or for a slice of land.
evp	slice	verb	1	B2	to cut something into thin, flat pieces	Slice the mushrooms and fry in butter.	
evp	slight	adjective	1	B2	small and not important	a slight improvement	To conclude, today's way of eating is not really healthy, but we can notice a slight improvement.
evp	slightly	adverb	1	B2	a little	She's slightly taller than her sister.	I guess I look slightly different now, after all it has been two years since you last saw me.
evp	slim	adjective	1	A1	Someone who is slim is thin in an attractive way.	a slim figure	She is tall and slim.
evp	slim	adjective	2	C2	small and not as much as you would like	There's a slim chance he'll succeed.	
evp	slip	verb	1	B1	to slide by accident and fall or almost fall	She slipped on the ice.	But then I slipped and fell down.
evp	slip	verb	2	C2	to put something somewhere quickly or secretly	She slipped the letter into an envelope and sealed it.	
evp	slip	verb	3	C2	to go somewhere quietly or quickly	I'll slip out of the room if I get bored.	My mission was to slip out of the ballroom and take pictures of the papers about the plans of Britain regarding the war.
evp	slip	verb	4	C2	to slide out of the correct position	The photo had slipped from the frame.	She said, "I got a letter from the hotel today. The diary was in it. It had slipped between the beds."
evp	slip	verb	5	C2	If something slips your mind, you forget about it.	I meant to tell her Nigel had phoned, but it completely slipped my mind.	There was something but it slipped my mind before I reached it.
evp	slip	verb	6	C2	If someone's power or the possibility of them winning or achieving something slips away, it disappears.	Down to ten men, the team was determined not to let victory slip away.	I immediately saw my dream slip away.
evp	slip	verb	7	C2	to leave secretly	He slipped away from the party as soon as he could.	However, my mother sometimes behaved like a hen looking out for her little ones for fear one of us could slip away.
evp	slip	verb	8	C2	If someone slips away, they die.	Despite their care, he slipped away in the night.	This can sometimes ease the burden of watching someone you love slip away.
evp	slip	verb	9	C2	If a period of time slips away, it seems to pass quickly.	As the months slipped away, I began to forget what he looked like.	They are pressed to make money and their major concern seems to be the time that always slips away.
evp	slip	verb	10	C2	If a remark slips out, you say it without intending to.	I didn't mean to tell anyone you were getting married - it just slipped out.	I could not understand how these words had slipped out of my mouth.
evp	slip	verb	11	C2	to make a mistake	These figures don't make sense - have we slipped up somewhere?	
evp	slippery	adjective	1	C1	smooth and wet and difficult to hold or walk on	Be careful - the floor's slippery.	We arrived at the mountain at seven o'clock in the morning and because the previous night it had been raining, the rocks were slippery.
evp	slogan	noun	1	C1	a short phrase that is easy to remember and is used to make people notice something	an advertising slogan	Our slogan is "BE CREATIVE."
evp	slope	noun	1	B2	a surface or piece of land that is high at one end and low at the other	There's a steep slope to climb before we're at the top.	During the daytime, we all went up to the slopes for skiing.
evp	slot	noun	1	C1	a long, narrow hole that you put something into, especially money	Put the coin in the slot.	Instead of inserting a coin, you put your card in a slot and then dial the number.
evp	slot	noun	2	C1	a period of time that you allow for something in a plan	The TV program is being moved to a later slot.	Customers will also be able to choose the date and even the time slot for the delivery.
evp	slow	adjective	1	A1	doing, moving or happening without much speed	a slow runner/driver/reader	I know about the concert and I like slow music.
evp	slow	adjective	2	B2	not exciting	I find his films very slow.	The beginning of the movie is slow, but the last hour is incredible.
evp	slow	adjective	3	C2	to take a long time to do something	The government has been slow to react to the problem.	But in the Third World, where birth rates are explosive, the governments, and even more the people, are slow to grasp the problem and act on it.
evp	slow	verb	1	C2	to become slower or to make something become slower	Traffic slows to a crawl during rush hour.	Having said that, I do agree that it is unavoidable to have increasing prices on oil] in an attempt to slow the rate of depletion of this resource that is not unlimited. (2250618; International English Language Testing System; Sri Lanka; C2 MASTERY; 2007; Tamil; 8
evp	slow	verb	2	B2	to become slower, or to make someone or something become slower	Slow down, you two, you're walking too fast!	Suddenly a car slowed down not far from him.
evp	slow	verb	3	B2	If someone slows down, they become less active.	The doctor told me I should slow down and not work so hard.	I just can't understand why you don't slow down a bit. Have a bit of fun, enjoy life!
evp	slowly	adverb	1	A2	at a slow speed	Could you please speak more slowly?	When I rang in the bell, my friend slowly opened the door.
evp	small	adjective	1	A1	little in size or amount	They live in a small apartment near Times Square.	It is a small village where my grandad lives.
evp	small	adjective	2	A1	A small child is very young.	Looking after small children can be very tiring.	I live with my wife and my small daughter who is 2 years old.
evp	small	adjective	3	A2	not important or serious	a small mistake	I'm OK, but I have a small problem! I forgot my books there yesterday, and tomorrow I'll have a test, and I really need to study.
evp	smart	adjective	1	B1	intelligent	Ginny is a very smart kid.	He is a very kind, smart, and good person, besides, he is a good son.
evp	smart	adjective	2	C1	having a clean, tidy and stylish appearance	a smart suit/jacket/uniform	For the ceremony all the guests are dressed in smart clothes, but don't buy a new suit because with the black one you have, it will be OK.
evp	smart	adjective	3	C1	using computers or information stored in electronic form	a smart phone	Some telephones are only operated by "smart cards."
evp	smash	verb	1	B2	to break into a lot of pieces with a loud noise, or to make something break into a lot of pieces with a loud noise	Some kids smashed her window.	Then the two men tried to smash the door down]
evp	smile	verb	1	B1	to make a happy or friendly expression in which the corners of your mouth curve up	He smiled and shook my hand.	But he began to smile and explained what had happened to him.
evp	smile	noun	1	B1	a happy or friendly expression in which the corners of your mouth curve up	Amy had a big smile on her face.	He has short dark brown hair, green eyes and a wonderful smile.
evp	smog	noun	1	C1	air pollution in a city that is a mixture of smoke, gases, and chemicals	Smog hung over the city.	This will reduce smog and pollution, which has become an increasing problem for Castlecross.
evp	smoke	verb	1	A1	to breathe smoke into your mouth from a cigarette	Please don't smoke in the classroom.	I like the pause between lessons. We go outside to smoke and fool about.
evp	smoke	noun	1	B1	the gray or black gas that is produced when something burns	cigarette smoke	The boys I met were smoking a lot!! I hate smoke!
evp	smoker	noun	1	B2	someone who smokes tobacco regularly	a cigarette/pipe smoker	You can go for a walk, (which is good for you), eat well-balanced food and try not to smoke (if you are a heavy smoker).
evp	smoking	noun	1	A1	when someone smokes a cigarette or regularly smokes cigarettes	Smoking is not permitted in the theater.	I don't like too much smoking in the college.
evp	smoky	adjective	1	C2	filled with smoke or giving off a lot of smoke	a smoky bar/room	It was dark, smoky, scruffy and overcrowded!
evp	smooth	adjective	1	B1	having a regular surface that has no holes or lumps in it	soft, smooth skin	The sand is so smooth and the water is so clean!
evp	smooth	adjective	2	C1	happening without problems or difficulties	Her job is to help students make a smooth transition from high school to college.	I believe that this is what we need to work with; finding smooth, "tailor-made" solutions.
evp	smooth	adjective	3	C2	happening without any sudden movements or changes	The plane made a smooth landing.	
evp	smoothly	adverb	1	B2	without any problems or difficulties	Everything was going smoothly before Darren arrived.	I hope everything goes smoothly.
evp	smoothly	adverb	2	C2	without any sudden movements or changes	The car accelerated smoothly.	John felt strange unity with his car; the car reacted very smoothly and instantly to every movement he made.
evp	smuggle	verb	1	C1	to take something into or out of a place in an illegal or secret way	He was arrested for smuggling cocaine into Britain.	Somehow they manage to get themselves trapped in a vicious circle of crime, under the influence of a magician who forces them to smuggle jewels for him.
evp	snack	noun	1	A2	a small amount of food that is eaten between meals, or a very small meal	I had a big lunch, so I'll only need a snack for dinner.	I prefer to see the movie on Friday and after it we can have a snack, OK?
evp	snake	noun	1	A2	a long, thin creature with no legs that slides along the ground	He's terrified of being bitten by a snake.	You would see a panda that was sent from China recently and a snake with two heads as well.
evp	snap	verb	1	C2	if something long and thin snaps, it breaks making a short, loud sound, and if you snap it, you break it making a short, loud sound.	The twigs snapped as we walked on them.	In January of this year, her right Achilles tendon snapped during a competition and it was uncertain whether she would be able to ski, let alone compete again.
evp	snap	verb	2	C2	to suddenly move to a particular position making a short, loud noise, or to make something do this	The suitcase snapped open and everything fell out.	Unfortunately, it was one of those automatic locks, that snap shut as soon as you close the doors, and, after a while he apparently found out that he was trapped inside the cupboard and couldn't get out.
evp	snap	verb	3	C2	to say something suddenly in an angry way	I was snapping at the children because I was tired.	Your job can be stressful enough without somebody snapping at you all the time.
evp	snap	verb	4	C2	to suddenly be unable to control a strong feeling, especially anger	She asked me to do the work again and I just snapped.	Something snapped in her, she told herself, "Let's quit my boring job, and make a fresh start!!"
evp	snatch	verb	1	C2	to take something or someone quickly and suddenly	Bill snatched the telephone from my hand.	He snatched the controls out of her hands and threw them on the floor.
evp	sneaker	noun	1	A2	a type of light comfortable shoe that is suitable for sports activities	a pair of sneakers	Dear Mike, I have left my sneakers in your room.
evp	sneeze	verb	1	B2	When you sneeze, air and often small drops of liquid suddenly come out of your nose and mouth in a way you cannot control.	Cats make him sneeze - I think he's allergic to them.	We were sneezing all the time and had a fever.
evp	sniff	verb	1	C2	to breathe air in through your nose in a way that makes a noise	You were sniffing a lot - it sounds like you have a cold.	Suddenly we heard something sniffing. Something was approaching us coming from the darkness. It was a bear.
evp	sniff	verb	2	C2	to breathe air in through your nose in order to smell something	He sniffed his socks to see if they needed to be washed.	That puppy was the cutest thing: tiny body, with floppy ears, a curious wet nose that wanted to sniff everything on its way, and huge cheerful eyes.
evp	snob	noun	1	C2	someone who thinks they are better than other people because they are in a higher social position	My aunt is such a snob!	Being stylish, whether it concerns cornflakes or shoes, to the degree of not having your own opinion, seems to be a pattern of behavior typical of a teenager or a total snob.
evp	snobbish	adjective	1	C2	like a snob	a snobbish attitude	Mary's friends seemed to be snobbish and artificial in their manners to Michael.
evp	snore	verb	1	B2	to breathe in a very noisy way while you are sleeping	He was snoring so much it kept me awake.	You know, we can live together as long as you don't snore like you did last time.
evp	snow	noun	1	A1	soft white pieces of frozen water that fall from the sky when the weather is cold	Outside the snow began to fall.	I like England because I like weather like snow.
evp	snow	verb	1	A2	If it snows, snow falls from the sky.	It's snowing.	It is raining and snowing all the time.
evp	snow	verb	2	C2	to be unable to leave a place because there is too much snow	We were snowed in for two days.	After being snowed in the following morning, we headed off to Las Vegas.
evp	snow	verb	3	C2	to have too much work	I'm snowed under at school.	During late winter evenings when you are snowed under at work, this positive change is what keeps you going.
evp	snowboard	noun	1	B1	a large board that you stand on to move over snow	I rented a snowboard for the day.	Moreover, I missed my snowboard, so the surfboard, the waves, the sand and the sun were filling this empty place in me.
evp	snowboarding	noun	1	A2	a sport in which you stand on a large board and move over snow	I love snowboarding.	I recommend you to go to St Moritz, w]her you can do a lot of interesting things like snowboarding, walking and so on.
evp	so	adverb	1	A2	used to emphasize the quantity, quality or amount of something	The house is so beautiful.	Thank you so much for your help!
evp	so	adverb	2	A2	used to refer to something that has just been mentioned, especially to give a short answer to a question	"I hope they'll get here on time." "I hope so too."	I've just watched the Rugby World Cup final with my dad. Did you watch it? I hope so, because it was just fantastic.
evp	so	adverb	3	A2	used after a list of things to show that you could have added other similar things	She plays a lot of tennis and squash and so on.	I like watching television, playing on the computer, reading books and so on.
evp	so	adverb	4	B1	used to say that someone else also does something or that the same thing is true about someone or something else	"We saw the new Star Trek movie last night." "Oh, so did we."	My eyes went watery and so did hers but then we laughed at each other.
evp	so	adverb	5	B1	until now	So far only seven people have entered the race.	So far I like it here very much.
evp	so	adverb	6	B1	approximately	"How many people were at the party?" "Fifty or so, I guess."	Well you told me about your situation and after thinking a lot, I thought you should go with them for a week or so, and then just take a plane and come to Barcelona to visit me.
evp	so	adverb	7	B2	if this is the case	It might rain this afternoon. If so, we'll have to have the party indoors.	I hope you are interested, and if so, I'll see you next summer.
evp	so	adverb	8	B2	in order to	I always keep fruit in the fridge so as to keep insects off it.	I would be interested in having skiing lessons too so as to improve my level which I consider is not very high.
evp	so	adverb	9	C1	if you do this, or if this is done	They want to build a completely new school, but to do so would cost far too much.	It is generally believed that if a better education is provided, children are better prepared for adult life. To do so, money is essential.
evp	so	adverb	10	C1	used to emphasize that something surprising is true despite what you have just said	Car prices have gone down a lot, but even so, we couldn't afford to buy one.	I'm sure many of these things happened due to bad luck, but even so, there are some arrangements that, I believe, can easily be improved.
evp	so	adverb	11	C1	used for saying what the purpose of an action is	He went in very quietly so as not to wake the baby.	Secondly, I think we should plan some other kind of activities in case of bad weather and we should have more than one bus with us so as not to waste time in case it breaks down.
evp	so	adverb	12	C2	used to say that something has not been useful or successful	"The computer crashed again." "So much for modern technology."	Well, so much for my virtues since I can't keep my big mouth shut.
evp	so	adverb	13	C2	used to say that there are limits to something	There's only so much help you can give someone.	The effects of a longer life span have many side effects such as an increase in the world's population and, since there is only so much food, many more people are starving to death.
evp	so	adverb	14	C2	used to say that you were right and that someone should have believed you	He's lazy?  I told you so, didn't I?	See, I told you so", Azman said with a grin.
evp	so	adverb	15	C2	sometimes, but not often	You meet some really interesting people every once in a while.	And likewise, common sense tells us it doesn't matter that oranges from Spain contain 0.01% more vitamin C than those from Florid[a], as long as we eat them every once in a while.
evp	so	adverb	16	C2	used to say that something has gone well until now	It's the first time I've done any decorating, but so far, so good.	So far, so good, only no one told us they held this point of view before the actual christening took place.
evp	so	adverb	17	C2	used to explain that the words you are using do not have their usual meaning	I do have a blog, so yes, I am a writer, so to speak.	Maintaining a good working relationship with your colleagues is one of the critical factors in keeping the company you work for afloat, so to speak.
evp	soak	verb	1	B2	If you soak something, or let it soak, you put it in a liquid for a period of time.	Soak the bread in the milk.	I was just enjoying the warm sand, soaking my feet in cold water, when his shadow obscured the sun.
evp	soak	verb	2	C1	If liquid soaks somewhere or soaks something, it makes something very wet.	The rain soaked my clothes.	"Oh Chris just look at your new suit - its all soaked through."
evp	soaked	adjective	1	B2	completely wet	My shirt was soaked.	Now it is a pleasure to drive in a warm and dry car, looking at the soaked bicycle riders as you quickly drive by them.
evp	soaking	adjective	1	B2	completely wet	You're soaking - why didn't you take an umbrella?	Then we arrived at the camp, and we were soaking wet.
evp	soap	noun	1	A2	a substance that you use for washing	a bar of soap	I think the soap and the shampoo are in the bathroom.
evp	soap	noun	2	B1	a series of television or radio programs that continues over a long period and is about the lives of a group of characters	I watch all the soaps.	But when I'm watching TV, I prefer soaps.
evp	soap opera	noun	1	B1	a series of television or radio programs that continues over a long period and is about the lives of a group of characters	She enjoys watching soap operas.	Do you like soap operas?
evp	soar	verb	1	C2	to increase to a high level very quickly	House prices have soared.	Not only has the interest from the public soared, but the competitions have also become commercially exploited and are today an integral part of our modern "brand and lifestyle" society.
evp	soar	verb	2	C2	to move quickly and smoothly in the sky, or to move quickly up into the sky	The birds were soaring high above.	Through the windows, a colorful bird could be seen, soaring, swooping, hovering, before disappearing.
evp	soaring	adjective	1	C1	increasing very quickly	soaring property prices	This is due to soaring house prices, especially in urban areas.
evp	sob	verb	1	B2	to cry in a noisy way	The child sobbed through the first day of school but played there happily by the end of the first week.	Suddenly one of our group members started to sob.
evp	sober	adjective	1	C2	Someone who is sober is not drunk.	She remained sober all evening.	Emma's father was a very wealthy man who had millions in the bank but he was also a violent drunk who was rarely sober.
evp	sober	adjective	2	C2	Someone who is sober is serious and thinks a lot.	He was in a sober mood.	We rarely see each other and our carefreeness and "joie de vivre" gave way to a more sober attitude towards life, we all have our jobs and our own destiny to take care of.
evp	sober	adjective	3	C2	Clothes or colors that are sober are plain and not bright.	a sober, gray dress	Peter wore a blue suit and a sober tie.
evp	so-called	adjective	1	B2	used to show that this is an informal, little known, or new name that something or someone is know as	Married taxpayers are hit hard by the so-called marriage penalty.	There are lots of so-called workaholics who suffer from heart-attacks, high-blood-pressure or general nervousness.
evp	so-called	adjective	2	B2	used to show that you think a word that is used to describe someone or something is wrong	These so-called experts don’t know anything.	This so-called "Perfect Evening" was so disappointing, as well as discouraging us from coming to your Circle Theatre again.
evp	soccer	noun	1	A2	a game in which two teams of players kick a round ball and try to score goals	a soccer player/team/club/shirt	I have a lot of hobbies, like playing soccer, playing computer games] playing basketball and reading books.
evp	sociable	adjective	1	B1	Someone who is sociable enjoys being with people and meeting new people.	Rob's very sociable - he likes his parties.	They are all friendly, cool, outgoing, and sociable.
evp	social	adjective	1	B1	relating to the things you do with other people for enjoyment when you are not working	I had an active social life when I in college.	I recommend this because there is more social life, nightlife, more fun and face[-to-face] experiences.
evp	social	adjective	2	B2	relating to society and the way people live	social services	There are ecological, technical, and social problems.
evp	socialism	noun	1	C2	a political system in which the government owns important businesses and industries, and which allows the people to share the money and opportunities equally	He is an opponent of socialism.	In his opinion, that would be a fatal mistake (his latest book is "The fatal arrogance: the error of socialism").
evp	socialist	noun	1	C1	someone who supports socialism	My parents are socialists.	It was the first time in history that socialists were a majority in the government.
evp	socialize	verb	1	B2	to spend time enjoying yourself with other people	I don't usually socialize with my colleagues.	Having a chance to relax and to socialize with other students after attending classes would be highly appreciated.
evp	social networking	noun	1	B1	using Web sites to meet people and talk to them	He spends a lot of time on social networking sites.	They tend to subscribe to different social-networking websites to communicate with people from all around the world and discuss different issues.
evp	society	noun	1	B1	a large group of people who live in the same country or area and have the same laws, traditions, etc.	a civilized/multicultural society	You know that we live in a multiracial society and it is very important to respect each other.
evp	society	noun	2	B2	an organization for people who have the same interests or aims	an amateur dramatic society	I read an article about the "Riding Society of Warlingham" in the local newspaper and I was fascinated by its ideas.
evp	sock	noun	1	A2	a piece of clothing that you wear on your foot inside your shoe	a pair of socks	I got a watch, gloves, socks and a pair of shoes.
evp	sofa	noun	1	A2	a long, comfortable seat that is large enough for two or more people	We bought a new leather sofa.	I think it's under the sofa or maybe in the bathroom.
evp	soft	adjective	1	A2	not hard or firm	a soft pillow	It's a small pillow. Oh, it's so soft and I never sleep without it.
evp	soft	adjective	2	A2	smooth and pleasant to touch	soft skin/hair	I like it, because it has got big eyes and very soft fur.
evp	soft	adjective	3	B1	not forceful, loud or easily noticed	a soft voice/sound/music	They keep playing soft music to entertain the customers.
evp	soft	adjective	4	C2	to like someone or something a lot	I've always had a soft spot for her.	I would definitely like to return there because I really enjoy museums and as I have always had a soft spot for art, I can say that, that Foundation is my cup of tea.
evp	soft drink	noun	1	A2	a cold, sweet drink that does not have alcohol in it	Are there any soft drinks for the children?	I can make some sandwiches or sell some soft drinks to help with the concert.
evp	softly	adverb	1	B1	in a quiet or gentle way	She spoke so softly it was hard to hear her.	Before going to bed, they kissed me softly.
evp	softness	noun	1	B2	the quality of being soft	Just feel the softness of the baby's skin!	The room has only a few lamps and the furniture is worn down and has lost its softness.
evp	software	noun	1	A2	programs that you use to make a computer do different things	He's written a piece of software which calculates your tax returns for you.	Dear Hla, I've left my computer software book at your home.
evp	soil	noun	1	B2	the top layer of earth that plants grow in	light/heavy/sandy soil	Many couples with young children and old people prefer fresh grass and natural soil to concrete and cement in a city.
evp	solar	adjective	1	B2	relating to, or involving the sun	solar energy	It will save a lot of electricity as solar energy is used.
evp	soldier	noun	1	B1	a member of an army	French/Cuban/Turkish/Chinese/American soldiers	My grandfather began to talk: it happened when I was young. I used to be a soldier, part of the quick response forces.
evp	sole	adjective	1	C1	only or not shared with anyone else	My sole purpose is to make the information more widely available.	Creating a library for this sole purpose would be ideal for our school's language department.
evp	solely	adverb	1	C1	only and not involving anyone or anything else	I bought it solely for that purpose.	The interviewee doesn't see the people answering the questions and has to decide solely from the answers given on whom to go out with.
evp	solid	adjective	1	B2	hard and firm, without holes or spaces	solid ground/rock	Having solid ground beneath her feet again she sighed with relief for having survived this adventure.
evp	solid	adjective	2	B2	strong and not easily broken or damaged	solid furniture	[If] you have an accident, you have less chance of getting hurt if you are sitting in a big, solid vehicle.
evp	solid	adjective	3	C1	not a liquid or a gas	Liquid and solid waste is collected in the tank.	Of the total amount of electrical power produced in the world, solid fuel is by far the most important contributor (44%).
evp	solid	adjective	4	C1	gold/silver/wood, etc. with nothing added	a solid silver bracelet	The dark marble is easy to keep clean and the solid brass handles look luxurious.
evp	solid	adjective	5	C2	Solid information, proof, etc. is based on facts and you are certain that it is correct.	This provided solid evidence that he committed the crime.	It may help you, because you have a solid background and plenty of theoretical information which you could use in practice.
evp	solidarity	noun	1	C1	agreement and support between people in a group who have similar aims or beliefs	Several professors joined the march to show solidarity with their students.	All the people were dancing, singing, laughing and enjoying their time in the company of these beautiful children from poor African streets, with a great sense of solidarity.
evp	solitary	adjective	1	C2	A solitary person or thing is the only person or thing in a place.	a solitary figure/runner	What is more, a star should remain with the people despite her or his celebrity, and bear in mind the old and perhaps worn-out, but none the less true comparison: a general without a faithful army is just a solitary soldier amid the field.
evp	solitary	adjective	2	C2	A solitary activity is done alone.	solitary walks	It was a month-long solitary journey through India.
evp	solitude	noun	1	C1	being alone	He went upstairs to read the letter in solitude.	You'll find true solitude and a place for serious contemplation of life's big questions.
evp	solo	adjective	1	B2	done alone by one person only	a solo performance/flight	They all started with a solo career.
evp	solo	noun	1	B2	a piece of music for one person or one instrument	a trumpet solo	They were amazing, the drummer was so fast - when he was playing the drum solo, I couldn't even see his hands and his drum sticks.
evp	solution	noun	1	B1	the answer to a problem	There's no easy solution to this problem.	I was pleased with the solution.
evp	solve	verb	1	B1	to find the answer to something	to solve a problem	You will help me to solve this problem, won't you?
evp	somehow	adverb	1	B1	in a way or by some means which is not known or not stated	It won't be easy, but we'll get across the river somehow.	I don't know exactly what happened but somehow I managed not to fall in the lake]
evp	somehow	adverb	2	B2	for a reason which is not clear	I know what we're doing is legal, but somehow it doesn't feel right.	I did not know who was talking to me but somehow I knew that it must be an urgent matter. Why else w]oul a stranger wake me in the middle of the night?
evp	someplace	adverb	1	B1	used to refer to a place when you do not know exactly where it is or when it is not important exactly where it is	The only time I’ve been to Florida I was on the way someplace else.	Tourists also need someplace to stay.
evp	sometimes	adverb	1	A1	on some occasions but not always or often	Sometimes we take food with us and sometimes we buy food when we're there.	We sometimes have classes in the library or the computer room.
evp	somewhat	adverb	1	C1	slightly	The resort has changed somewhat over the last few years.	We found the written article to be somewhat inaccurate, since several facts were mistaken and others were blown out of proportion.
evp	somewhere	adverb	1	A2	used to refer to a place when you do not know exactly where it is or when it is not important exactly where it is	The last I heard, he was living somewhere in Florida.	And I think we should go somewhere else to have a drink after the film.
evp	somewhere	adverb	2	B2	approximately	The temperature will be somewhere around 90° again today.	The gathering will take place somewhere between the first and second week of the month, so you can come somewhere around then.
evp	son	noun	1	A1	your male child	This is our son Raja.	I love my son and my girlfriend.
evp	song	noun	1	A2	a usually short piece of music with words which are sung	to sing/perform a song	We sang a song at the party.
evp	son-in-law	noun	1	B2	your daughter's husband	My son-in-law helped me repair the fence.	
evp	soothing	adjective	1	C2	making you feel calm or in less pain	We listened to some soothing music.	The appropriate "lounge" music would only add to the soothing and relaxing effect that this scenery would have on us and would probably go unnoticed.
evp	sophisticated	adjective	1	B2	well-educated and having experience of the world or knowledge of culture	She was smart and sophisticated.	Her conversation was very sophisticated.
evp	sophisticated	adjective	2	B2	A sophisticated machine or system is complicated and advanced or made with great skill.	I think a more sophisticated approach is needed to solve this problem.	These days we can use a computer, television or other sophisticated equipment.
evp	sore	adjective	1	B1	painful, especially when touched	I've got a sore throat.	I'll miss the class, because I've got a sore throat.
evp	sore	adjective	2	C2	a subject that causes disagreement or makes people angry when it is discussed	Money is a sore point with him at the moment.	Although it is not a new phenomenon, it is more common - and a sore point - in our Society that, old people live alone and without any help.
evp	sorrow	noun	1	C2	when someone feels very sad	He expressed his sorrow at the news.	Perhaps being smart and over-achieving may sound like an offer that is too tempting to turn down, but it is as much of a burden as it is a blessing. These qualities bring forth the worst in one's peers, leading to loneliness and sorrow.
evp	sorry	adjective	1	A1	used to apologize for something you have done	Oh, I'm sorry - I didn't see you there.	Hi! Yes, of course I can go for dinner tomorrow, but I will be a little late, sorry about that.
evp	sorry	adjective	2	A2	used to show sympathy or sadness for a person or situation	I'm sorry (that) you had such a difficult journey.	I was sorry that you couldn't come to my birthday party.
evp	sorry	adjective	3	B1	to feel sympathy for someone because they are in a difficult situation	I feel so sorry for the kids - it must be really hard for them.	Anyway, I feel sorry for her and I wonder: what would I do if I were her?
evp	sorry	adjective	4	B2	used to show politeness when refusing something or disagreeing	I'm sorry but I think you've made a mistake.	I am sorry but I can't tell you the starting date right now, although I think it's around the 15th of July.
evp	sort	noun	1	A2	a type of something	We both like the same sort of music.	I like rap and techno but I don't know if everybody loves this sort of music!
evp	sort	noun	2	A2	many different types of something	They had all sorts of jewelry for sale.	I like all sorts of music but I prefer urban music!
evp	sort	noun	3	B1	used to show that what you have just said is only an example from a larger group of things	They sell souvenirs, postcards, that sort of thing.	I also enjoy using new clothes for the first time, but I prefer buying other stuff like electronic devices or that sort of thing.
evp	sort	noun	4	B2	used to describe something approximately	It's a sort of pale orange color.	I sort of felt like I had done my part to make the concert a success.
evp	sort	verb	1	B2	to arrange things into different groups or types or into an order	Paper, plastic and cans are sorted for recycling.	
evp	sort	verb	2	B2	to successfully deal with something, such as a problem or difficult situation	Did you get your schedule sorted out yet?	The reason why I can't do that late in the evening is that they need the car themselves then, to sort out some last things before the wedding.
evp	sort	verb	3	B2	to organize or arrange things that are not neat	I need to sort out my closet.	To keep myself busy I started to sort out the files on my desk.
evp	soul	noun	1	A2	popular music with a strong beat that expresses deep feelings, originally performed by African-Americans	Their records are a mixture of soul and jazz.	I really like listening to Hip Hop, R 'n' B, soul and love songs.
evp	soul	noun	2	B2	the part of a person that is not their body and which some people believe continues to exist after they die	She suffered greatly while she was alive, so let us hope her soul is now at peace.	When you meet her you can understand her spirit in writing is coming from her soul.
evp	soul	noun	3	B2	a person	I didn't see a soul when I went out.	Unlike a year ago, she did not tell a soul.
evp	sound	noun	1	A2	something that you hear or that can be heard	They could hear the sound of a bell tolling in the distance.	I can help with the decoration, the lights and the sound.
evp	sound	noun	2	C2	how something seems to be, from what you have been told or heard	I like the sound of the beef in red wine sauce.	
evp	sound	noun	3	C2	completely safe and without injury or damage	After three days lost in the mountains, all the climbers arrived home safe and sound.	So, by the time you read this letter I'll probably be safe and sound in Liverpool.
evp	sound	verb	1	A2	to seem good, interesting, strange, etc. from what is said or written	Your job sounds really interesting.	How about painting the floor with white paint and the walls with black paint? I think it sounds fun.
evp	sound	verb	2	B1	to seem like something, from what you have heard or read	That sounds like a really good idea.	It sounds like your new trousers are very nice.
evp	sound	verb	3	B2	to seem angry, happy, rude, etc. when you speak	He sounded very depressed when we spoke on the telephone yesterday.	He sounded so excited!
evp	soundtrack	noun	1	B2	the music used in a movie or a television program	The film's soundtrack includes music by Bob Marley.	The first time I heard it was in a movie, named "8 Mile." This song was the soundtrack of that movie.
evp	soup	noun	1	A1	a usually hot, liquid food made from vegetables and sometimes meat or fish cooked in water	chicken/tomato/vegetable soup	I like to eat soup, eggs, meat and salad.
evp	sour	adjective	1	B1	having a sharp, sometimes unpleasant, taste or smell, like a lemon, and not sweet	sour cream	I think it is possible because your pork-chop was as tough as old boots and the salad dressing was sour!
evp	source	noun	1	B2	where something comes from	a source of heat/energy/light	Fish is a great source of vitamins.
evp	source	noun	2	C1	someone who gives information to the police, newspapers, etc.	The story came from a source within the government.	For the next report, I advise you to get the correct information from the source.
evp	south	noun	1	A2	the direction that is toward the part of the earth below the equator, opposite to north, or the part of an area or country that is in this direction	The points of the compass are north, south, east and west.	I am in Toulon, in the south of France.
evp	south	noun	2	A2	the part of an area that is further toward the south than the rest	We live in the south of the city.	The best place in Poland to spend a holiday is the south of the country.
evp	south	adjective	1	A2	in or forming the south part of something	the south side of Chicago	I went to a Safari Park near Birmingham, and to Cambridge, London, and the south part of England.
evp	south	adverb	1	A2	towards the south	The Mississippi river flows south.	There is a large window facing south so that it's bright and warm.
evp	southeast	noun	1	B1	the direction that is between south and east, or the southeast part of a country	We live in the southeast.	The south and the southeast are the backbone of the Brazilian economy so there are lots of malls, department stores and very good nightlife.
evp	southeast	adjective	1	B1	in the southeast, or facing toward the southeast	She lives on the southeast side of town.	
evp	southern	adjective	1	B1	in or from the south part of an area	a southern route	Later we went to the "Waldsee", in the southern part of Freiburg.
evp	southwest	noun	1	B1	the direction that is between south and west, or the southwest part of a country	The wind was coming from the southwest.	I remember the day we went to Sarlat, a lovely town in the southwest of France.
evp	southwest	adjective	1	B1	in the southwest, or facing toward the southwest	The district is in the southwest corner of the state.	I live in a village in the southwest part of Poland.
evp	souvenir	noun	1	B1	something which you buy or keep to remember a special event or holiday	I kept the ticket as a souvenir of my trip.	There is a well-known place near the hotel were you can buy souvenirs and chocolates.
evp	sow	verb	1	C1	to put seeds into the ground	to sow seeds/crops	Farmers had to plow, sow and harvest cotton on their own, using their labor and hands.
evp	soy	noun	1	C1	a substance made from beans and used to make many foods	This milk is made from soy.	
evp	space	noun	1	A2	an empty area which is available to be used	Is there any space for my clothes in that closet?	I want to sell my stereo because in my room there isn't space for it.
evp	space	noun	2	B1	the area outside the earth's atmosphere, where the planets and the stars are	space exploration/travel	In the museum, there were a lot of interesting things, such as a telescope (very big), space ship, and some clothes for wearing in space.
evp	space	noun	3	B2	that which is around everything that exists and which is continuous in all directions	He was absent-mindedly staring/gazing into space.	Just think of this one example when you go to visit a zoo and you see the elephant or the tiger or lion walking up and down and up and down in their "prison" and staring into space.
evp	spacious	adjective	1	C1	large and with a lot of space	a spacious apartment/office	The rooms are spacious enough but they are very cold and that means that during the winter we have to wear many clothes in order to stay warm.
evp	spam	noun	1	C1	emails that you do not want, usually advertisements	Most of the emails I receive are spam.	
evp	spark	noun	1	C2	a very small, bright piece of burning material	The fire was caused by a spark from a cigarette.	As the last spark ceased to glow, all the people stood up and sang the Canadian national anthem.
evp	spark	noun	2	C2	a small idea or event which causes something bigger to start	a spark of hope/inspiration	And with this spark of enthusiasm for faster food, some (to me unknown) genius came up with the m]icrowav oven, designed to cook most things in under 5 minutes.
evp	spark	verb	1	C2	to cause an argument, fight, etc. to start happening	to spark a debate/protest/riot	Please notice that I am not blaming alcohol as the origin of the problem, rather, I am blaming it because it sparks off a reaction that worsens the problem.
evp	sparsely	adverb	1	C2	with small amounts and scattered over a large area	This whole area is very sparsely populated.	A lot of these young people usually come from sparsely populated areas and want to move to a major city in order to be where things are happening.
evp	speak	verb	1	A1	to say something using your voice	Would you mind speaking more slowly, please?	I like speaking also because I speak to everybody.
evp	speak	verb	2	A1	to be able to talk in a language	He speaks fluent French.	I don't speak English properly.
evp	speak	verb	3	B1	to talk about something	Ted will speak about careers in education.	They filmed the teachers speaking about this event, and the beautiful paintings made by the students.
evp	speak	verb	4	B2	used to explain that you are talking about something in a general/personal, etc., way	Well, generally speaking, it's quicker if you take the train.	Generally speaking, the best way to keep fit is to live a healthy life.
evp	speak	verb	5	B2	to deliver a formal talk to a group of people about a particular subject	She was invited to speak at a conference in Madrid.	[O]n behalf of all its members, I would like to invite you to speak at one of our meetings.
evp	speak	verb	6	C1	to express the feelings, opinions, etc., of another person or a group of people	I've been chosen to speak on behalf of the whole class.	I think I speak for many when I say that school wouldn't be what it is, if it were not for the great men and women who sacrifice so much of their time so that we students can stimulate our minds and learn more.
evp	speak	verb	7	C2	used to explain that the words you are using do not have their usual meaning	I do have a blog, so yes, I am a writer, so to speak.	Maintaining a good working relationship with your colleagues is one of the critical factors in keeping the company you work for afloat, so to speak.
evp	speak	verb	8	C2	If something speaks for itself, it is clear and needs no further explanation.	The school's excellent record speaks for itself.	On the one hand the economic success of sports events speaks for itself.
evp	speak	verb	9	C2	If something speaks volumes, it makes an opinion, characteristic, or situation very clear without the use of words.	She said very little, but her face spoke volumes.	Although there is always something a country is famous for, cooking is what speaks volumes of its inhabitants and the region.
evp	speak	verb	10	C2	to say exactly what you think without worrying if it will upset anyone	She has very strong opinions and she's not afraid to speak her mind.	His father is even more eccentric, speaks his mind and has no manners at all.
evp	speak	verb	11	C2	to not speak to someone because you have argued with them	My brother and I aren't on speaking terms.	Just imagine how many are those who hate their relatives or at least one of their relatives and aren't even on speaking terms with them or him.
evp	speak	verb	12	B2	to speak in a louder voice so that people can hear you	Could you speak up? We can't hear at the back.	First of all, I read it far too fast and in a voice that was hardly audible, and people started to shout that they couldn't hear me and that I should speak up; it was terrible!
evp	speaker	noun	1	A2	the part of a radio, CD player, etc. which the sound comes out of	I bought some new speakers for my CD player.	I can give you 6, big, high quality speakers for the concert.
evp	speaker	noun	2	B1	someone who can speak English/Spanish, etc.	He's a fluent Russian speaker.	I think I'm going to be an English speaker sooner than I expected.
evp	speaker	noun	3	B1	someone who makes a speech to a group of people	a good public speaker	The speaker told me many things about feeding birds.
evp	special	adjective	1	A2	better or more important than usual things	a special friend	I got many presents from my friends, and I got a special present from my dad [-] it was a new bike
evp	special	adjective	2	B1	a price which is lower than usual	There's a special offer on sunglasses this week.	Unfortunately, they have stopped their special offer "1 month for Euro] 100" and I know that you want to stay fit. As soon as they make a new offer I will let you know and then you can join us!
evp	special	adjective	3	B1	different from normal things, or used for a particular purpose	You need to use a special kind of paint.	He stepped into a small, handmade, wooden canoe - it['s] called Hakaro. It's a special kind of canoe.
evp	special	adjective	4	B2	treatment that is better than usual	I don't expect special treatment - I just want to be treated fairly.	As you know, an Austin Healey needs special treatment.
evp	specialist	noun	1	B2	someone who has a lot of experience, knowledge, or skill in a particular subject	a software specialist	Now, fully equipped and powerful computers can be so small and mobile that some specialists predict that new devices will replace the book.
evp	specialize	verb	1	B2	to spend most of your time studying one particular subject or doing one type of business	She hired a lawyer who specializes in accident cases.	I study economics and finance, specializing in insurance.
evp	specially	adverb	1	B1	for a particular purpose	Her wheelchair was specially designed for her.	I'm thinking of getting a beautiful long black wool coat specially made for you.
evp	specialty	noun	1	C1	a special study area, work, skill, or product of a person, business, or place	Her specialty is heart surgery.	They provide courses the whole year round at all levels, although Business English is their specialty.
evp	species	noun	1	B2	a group of plants or animals that share similar characteristics	Mountain gorillas are an endangered species.	Then I wrote an article about saving endangered species.
evp	specific	adjective	1	B2	used to refer to a particular thing and not something general	English for specific purposes	We need to see animals, study them, and in some cases find out why specific types of animals can't live in the nature which we have spoiled.
evp	specific	adjective	2	C1	exact or containing details	Could you be more specific about the problem?	To be more specific, our students discovered that the majority of your exhibits did not function at all.
evp	specifically	adverb	1	C1	for a particular reason, purpose, etc.	They're designed specifically for children.	I specifically chose to travel with you since your travel brochure promised a half-day trip to St. Andrews, where I was to meet my friend Ann.
evp	specifically	adverb	2	C1	exactly or in detail	I specifically told them that she doesn't eat meat.	More specifically, students have to complete numerous questions with very long answers for four different subjects, and the time available for each subject is three hours.
evp	specification	noun	1	C1	a detailed description of how something should be done, made, etc.	They are made exactly to the customer's specifications.	Translating technical specifications prepared by non-native speakers can often cause serious problems.
evp	specify	verb	1	B2	to state or describe something clearly and exactly	He said we should meet but didn't specify a time.	You did not specify what kind of work you are supposed to do either in a restaurant or in a museum.
evp	specimen	noun	1	C2	an animal, plant, etc. used as an example of its type, especially for scientific study	This is one of the museum's finest specimens.	Plant life to is being given a hard time, as the would-be mountain explorers walk off the designated paths and wreak havoc in the wilderness, destroying many priceless specimens.
evp	spectacular	adjective	1	B1	extremely good, exciting, or surprising	a spectacular view	It is located in a tall building and has a spectacular view.
evp	spectator	noun	1	B2	someone who watches an event, sport, etc.	The stadium was packed with cheering spectators.	At midnight sharp, fireworks covered the concert hall and I, as well as the rest of the spectators, felt the excitement and delight I've never felt before.
evp	spectrum	noun	1	C1	all the different ideas, opinions, possibilities, etc. that exist	He has support from across the whole political spectrum.	At the other end of the spectrum of opinions you can find some people who need to park in the city for business matters, like a local shopkeeper I talked to, who is afraid of losing customers.
evp	spectrum	noun	2	C2	the set of colors into which light can be separated	The colors of the spectrum can be seen in a rainbow.	Then, at dawn, the sun slowly rises, producing a spectacular spectrum of colors, ranging from deep purple to blinding yellow.
evp	speculate	verb	1	C2	to guess possible answers to a question when you do not have enough information to be certain	The police refused to speculate about the cause of the accident.	One can speculate endlessly without any inkling of what the subject involves and will never be able to be sure whether there is any truth behind their contemplations.
evp	speculation	noun	1	C1	when people guess about something without having enough information to be certain	She has dismissed the claims as pure speculation.	I seriously urge your organization to base your reports on hard facts instead of speculation.
evp	speech	noun	1	B1	someone's ability to talk, or an example of someone talking	People who suffer a stroke may experience a loss of speech.	The reason why I decided to join the English class is because of my English speech, I should talk more fluently but I'm trying my best.
evp	speech	noun	2	B2	a formal talk given usually to a large number of people on a special occasion	I had to give/make a speech at my brother's wedding.	I suggest that if you want to invite someone to give a speech, you have to invite athletes.
evp	speech	noun	3	C2	the right to say or write what you want	They fought for the right to free speech.	Music, especially punk-music, symbolizes freedom of speech.
evp	speechless	adjective	1	C1	unable to speak because you are so angry, shocked, surprised, etc.	I couldn't believe what he was telling me - I was speechless.	Last year, I had the opportunity to visit Chania again with my family and I was speechless when I understood that everything has undergone rapid change, because of tourism.
evp	speed	noun	1	B1	how fast something moves or happens	high/low speed	So we left at full speed!!!
evp	speed	noun	2	B2	very fast movement	I get a real thrill from speed.	Every summer I do watersports because I like water. I'm very good at swimming and I like the speed of some watersports.
evp	speed	noun	3	C1	having all the most recent information about a subject or activity	The course should bring you up to speed with the latest techniques.	Apart from this you can keep yourself up to speed with what's happening around the world on various fronts.
evp	speed	noun	4	C1	to drive faster than you are allowed to according to the law	She was exceeding the speed limit.	There are three ground rules you have to follow: stop at stop signs, don't exceed the speed limit and don't be in the way of other cars.
evp	spell	verb	1	A2	to write down or tell someone the correct letters that are used to make a word	"How do you spell 'receive'?" "R E C E I V E."	Then she made us spell our names.
evp	spelling	noun	1	A2	forming words with the correct letters in the correct order, or the ability to do this	Will I be marked wrong if I use British spellings rather than American?	I want to ask my teacher to help me more with writing because I have a very b]a problem with spelling and grammar.
evp	spend	verb	1	A2	to use time doing something or being somewhere	You need to spend at least 20 minutes on each exercise.	We are going to spend the weekend in Paris.
evp	spend	verb	2	A2	to use money to buy or pay for something	How much did you spend?	I spent 500 dollars on this mobile phone.
evp	spending	noun	1	C2	the money which is used for a particular purpose, especially by a government or organization	government spending on health care	"If I become Prime Minister, the first issues on my political agenda will be to curb government spending on armaments, to reorganize the bureaucratic system, to reduce the rate of unemployment," he told me the last time I saw him.
evp	sphere	noun	1	C1	a subject or area of knowledge, work, etc.	the political sphere	There is a very big crew, all of them very good in their sphere of work.
evp	spice	noun	1	B1	a substance made from a plant, which is used to give a special taste to food	Cinnamon, ginger and cloves are all spices.	It's very delicious with some spices and many kinds of salad.
evp	spice	noun	2	C2	something that makes something else more exciting	A scandal or two adds a little spice to office life.	Yes, we just have to believe in ourselves, add a little spice to our days and face the world - no matter which world.
evp	spicy	adjective	1	B1	containing spices that have strong flavor and are hot to the taste	Do you like spicy food?	I don't like spicy food, it's not good for my stomach.
evp	spider	noun	1	B1	a small creature with eight long legs which catches insects in a web	a spider's web	She is afraid of spiders.
evp	spill	verb	1	B1	to pour liquid or another substance somewhere without intending to, or to fall or flow out of a container in a way that is not intended	I spilled coffee on my silk shirt.	Then I'm going to buy a new r]ug because a few days ago, I spilled some juice.
evp	spin	verb	1	C1	If something spins or you spin something, it turns around and around quickly.	The car spun across the road.	When the valve of the reservoir is opened, it passes through a pipe and it makes the turbine spin.
evp	spin	verb	2	C2	If you spin around, or someone spins you around, your body turns quickly to face the opposite direction.	She spun around to see what had happened.	She felt this pleasant drift immediately and spun around, being afraid that she would see someone at the doorway.
evp	spinach	noun	1	B1	a vegetable with large, dark green leaves and a strong taste	spinach lasagne/salad	The embarrassing moment came when I saw the first dish: carrots with spinach!
evp	spine	noun	1	C1	the long structure of bones down the center of your back, which supports your body	She injured her spine in a riding accident.	I use this center because my doctor recommended [I] follow a very specific type of exercise to correct problems that I have with my spine.
evp	spine	noun	2	C2	to make you feel afraid or excited	The sound of his voice sent shivers down my spine.	Simply looking at her sent shivers down his spine - there was the love of his life, the dearest woman on good old Earth, that he's never met before.
evp	spirit	noun	1	B2	the way people think and feel about something	The players have a very strong team spirit.	In addition to that] you should invite athletes who have experience in sports to speak about team spirit and the role that sports have in our life.
evp	spirit	noun	2	B2	feeling good/excited/unhappy, etc.	The whole class was in good spirits that day.	I was in high spirits until I got my paper back.
evp	spirit	noun	3	B2	a form of a dead person such as a ghost	an evil spirit	I thought the house could have ghosts or spirits and because of this, I tried to convince myself that it had been my imagination, but suddenly the lights went out.
evp	spirit	noun	4	C1	the part of a person which is not their body, which some people believe continues to exist after they die	I believe my spirit will live on after I die.	I would like to tell [José San Martin] that even if he could not reach his goal, without him, we would still be a dependent country. Furthermore, that his spirit was, is and will be in our hearts and minds.
evp	spirit	noun	5	C1	a strong alcoholic drink, such as whisky or vodka	I don't often drink spirits.	There will be starter]s meat, fish, desserts... and a lot of Rioja's wine, of course! Champagne and spirits too.
evp	spiritual	adjective	1	B2	relating to deep feelings and beliefs, especially religious beliefs	Traditional ways of life fulfilled both economic and spiritual needs.	I'd like to get in contact with the amazing spiritual life in [India]. There is no other country in the world with so many different religions and sects.
evp	spiritually	adverb	1	C2	in a way that relates to deep feelings and beliefs, especially religious beliefs	We returned from our vacation refreshed both physically and spiritually.	This view of life and work is not right, according to my beliefs, since being rich can lead to happiness, but may also lead you to poverty, spiritually speaking.
evp	spit	verb	1	C2	to force liquid out of your mouth	I don't like to see people spitting in public.	Eric could ride a horse like nobody else, he could spit the furthest and climb the highest trees, and one year Eric broke his leg and had to be taken to the hospital in an ambulance.
evp	splash	verb	1	B2	If a liquid splashes or you splash a liquid, drops of it hit or fall on something.	Water was splashing from a hole in the roof.	But in some towns we stayed in] there were public swimming pools so we could even splash in the water.
evp	splash	verb	2	B2	to move in water so that drops of it go in all directions	The children splashed through the puddles.	So we were splashing around and then went to dry ourselves.
evp	splash	noun	1	B2	the sound of something falling into or moving in water	They sat listening to the splash of raindrops on the lake.	[M]y friend, the mechanic Alex, heard a strange noise, a very powerful splash in the sea, and a lot of water came into the boat.
evp	splash	noun	2	C2	a drop of liquid that has fallen on something, or the mark made by it	There were several small splashes of paint on the carpet.	And at precisely 6pm, the sky is painted with a splash of orange and there you can enjoy one of the best sunsets in the world.
evp	splash	noun	3	C2	to get a lot of public attention	The movie made quite a splash in the US.	Moreover, it is no use splashing your money around on expensive gifts because this behavior shows that you are not happy but your purpose is to make a splash.
evp	splendid	adjective	1	C1	very good or very beautiful, special, etc.	a splendid idea	As far as interviewing sports personalities is concerned, it would be a splendid idea to interview Gerry Armstrong because he would be able to inform students about football, as he is a very good player.
evp	splendor	noun	1	C2	great beauty, or something that causes admiration and attention	It took several years to restore the building to its original splendor.	Then, when I came back, I would be able to show this ancient civilization to the world in all it's glory and splendor.
evp	split	verb	1	B2	to divide into smaller parts or groups, or to divide something into smaller parts or groups	The prize was split between Susan and Kate.	In my opinion we might just split a full-time salary.
evp	split	verb	2	C1	to share something by dividing it into smaller parts	The cost of the wedding will be split between the two families.	Sharing is cheaper since you always split the bills two or more ways and in your own place you cook your own food.
evp	split	verb	3	C2	If something splits or if you split it, it comes apart so that there is a long, thin hole in it.	His shorts split when he tried to jump the fence.	It made a satisfying crashing noise as the frame and glass split.
evp	split	verb	4	C2	If a group of people splits, or something splits them, they disagree and form smaller groups.	This issue could split the Republican Party.	This debate has affected a lot of discussions and split public opinion.
evp	split	verb	5	B1	If two people who are married or have a relationship split up, they end it.	They've split up.	I asked her about the family and about her. She had recently split up with her boyfriend, Joe.
evp	spoil	verb	1	B1	to stop something from being enjoyable or successful	He tried not to let the bad news spoil his evening.	Nothing was able to spoil my holiday!
evp	spoil	verb	2	C1	If you spoil a child, you let them have anything they want or do anything they want, usually making them badly behaved.	Her children are completely spoiled.	Are rich kids inevitably spoiled? Will all poor kids learn the value of a dollar? I believe that this is only a common yet fallacious stereotype.
evp	spokesman	noun	1	C1	a man who is chosen to speak officially for a group or organization	He was the spokesman for their organization.	Becoming spokesman or woman for a good cause will lead to more popularity of and more attention for the cause.
evp	spokesperson	noun	1	C1	someone who is chosen to speak officially for a group or organization	She was the spokesperson for the group.	As the local community spokesperson, my ability to plan, initiate and execute the cleaning of rivers, within our local community as a start, will be beneficial to the "Protect our river" requirements.
evp	sponsor	verb	1	B2	to give money to someone to support an activity, event, or organization, sometimes as a way to advertise your company or product	The Rotary Club sponsors Little League baseball in the summer.	The whole event is organized by university students and is sponsored by local firms.
evp	sponsor	noun	1	B2	a person or organization that gives money to support an activity, event, etc	Corporate sponsors support many public TV programs.	The party starts at 7:30 p.m and it is organized by Mr. Arm who is the sponsor of the conference.
evp	sponsorship	noun	1	C1	when someone gives money to support something	We wanted to set up a youth center, and asked local businesses for sponsorship.	The aim of this proposal is to explain the reason why our company can sponsor our country's tennis championship and outline the benefits we will gain from this sponsorship.
evp	spoon	noun	1	A2	an object with a handle and a round, curved part at one end, used for eating and serving food	Could I have a spoon, please?	Can I give you some knives and spoons for the cake?
evp	sport	noun	1	A1	a game or activity which people do to keep healthy or for enjoyment, often competing against each other	Football, baseball, basketball, and hockey are all team sports.	I don't like when I must play golf. I don't like this sport.
evp	sports	adjective	1	B1	relating to sports	sports equipment	You should go there because in a big school there are more possibilities of making new friendships and you can choose from a wide range of sports activities.
evp	sporty	adjective	1	C1	stylish and suitable for people who are active	a sporty new car	
evp	spot	noun	1	B1	a small, round mark which is a different color from the surface it is on	He had a spot on his tie.	This lamp is green with yellow spots on it and in my opinion it's perfect for my room.
evp	spot	noun	2	B2	a place	This looks like a nice spot for a picnic.	Lake Frene is just a lake, there's nothing to do and it's a crowded spot.
evp	spot	noun	3	C2	to like someone or something a lot	I've always had a soft spot for her.	I would definitely like to return there because I really enjoy museums and as I have always had a soft spot for art, I can say that, that Foundation is my cup of tea.
evp	spot	noun	4	C2	immediately	I accepted the job on the spot.	And when it was Meredith's turn to tell her about her impending wedding, she felt she was going to have a heart attack on the spot.
evp	spot	noun	5	C2	to ask someone a question that is difficult or embarrassing to answer at that time	Sorry to put you on the spot, but I really need an answer.	
evp	spot	verb	1	B2	to see or notice something or someone	I've just spotted Malcolm - he's over there, near the entrance.	It is very easy to spot because there is a big sign for the hotel next to the building.
evp	spotless	adjective	1	C2	completely clean	By the time I'd finished, the whole room was spotless.	Sitting in her armchair, Ann realized that she was by herself for the first time after many difficult weeks spent with her mother in a spotless bedroom of a Swiss hospital.
evp	spouse	noun	1	C2	your husband or wife	Is his spouse still living?	It might be that the object in question reminds the owner of a beloved person, a deceased relative, a lost love, or a trip with his or her spouse.
evp	spray	noun	1	B2	liquid in a container which forces it out in small drops	hair spray	Actually, there was an attempt to cut down on using and producing sprays which destroy the ozone layer.
evp	spray	verb	1	B2	to force liquid out of a container in many small drops	The fields are sprayed with pesticides.	I quickly helped the others to decorate the hall - we blew up as many balloons as we could and sprayed them with gold and silver.
evp	spread	verb	1	B2	to gradually affect a larger area	The fire spread very rapidly because of the strong wind.	It seemed that the fire might spread more.
evp	spread	verb	2	B2	If information spreads, or if someone spreads it, it is communicated to many people.	News of his victory spread quickly.	The news spread all over the village.
evp	spread	verb	3	B2	to cover an area	The suburbs spread for miles in every direction.	It has about 500 in]habitants who live in 128 houses, which are spread over a big area.
evp	spread	verb	4	C1	to arrange something over a large area, especially something that was folded	I spread a blanket over his legs.	She looked at all the diaries that were all spread out around her on the bed.
evp	spread	verb	5	C2	to move a soft substance across a surface so that it covers it	What I really like is hot, buttered toast spread  with strawberry jam.	[The] British are astonished when they see Catalans rubbing their bread with ripe tomatoes. Likewise Spaniards feel surprised when Europeans spread butter on it instead.
evp	spread	verb	6	C2	to arrange for something to happen over a period of time and not at once	The payments will be spread over two years.	This would both spread the cost and make the whole plan more workable.
evp	spread	verb	7	B2	If people spread out, they move from being close together in a group to being in different places across a larger area.	They spread out to search the whole area.	They don't dare to spread out in the space.
evp	spread	noun	1	B2	when something moves to cover a larger area or affect a larger number of people	Jazz records fostered the spread of American culture.	It is true that these days people have much more choice in entertainment, the spread of computers and video games is just one example.
evp	spreadsheet	noun	1	B2	a chart produced on a computer which helps you to do business calculations and planning	She prepared a spreadsheet with the new sales information.	I would be very interested in joining your club, in order to learn how to use basic software like word processing, spreadsheet or database software.
evp	spring	noun	1	A2	the season of the year between winter and summer, when the weather becomes warmer and plants start to grow again	spring flowers/weather	You can come in spring.
evp	spring	noun	2	C1	a place where water comes out of the ground	hot springs	Also there is a hot spring beside a river.
evp	spring	verb	1	C2	to jump or move somewhere suddenly	The cat sprang onto the sofa.	Suddenly, we heard a clap of thunder and all of us sprang to our feet.
evp	spring	verb	2	C2	If something springs to mind, you suddenly think of it.	Mention fashion and Kate’s name immediately springs to mind.	A musical event that clearly springs to mind is a Rolling Stones concert in Parken, Copenhagen, which I attended in June 1998.
evp	spring	verb	3	C2	to come from or be the result of something	Her remarkable poise springs from her early theater training.	Here again, the musicians are concentrated on the energy and beauty of their surroundings and their lyrics spring from everyday observations, thus greatly enhancing the potential of small things.
evp	spring	verb	4	C2	to appear suddenly	A lot of new hotels have sprung up along the coast recently.	A number of new budget airlines have sprung up in Europe over the last several years.
evp	sprinkle	verb	1	C2	to gently drop small pieces of something over a surface	Sprinkle the cake with sugar before serving.	Near the cathedral, in an imposing Baroque building, there is the collection of modern Tinguely's fountains. Built with recycled materials, thousands of pieces move aimlessly, sprinkling water everywhere.
evp	spur	verb	1	C2	to encourage someone to do something or something to happen	Spurred on by his fans, he won the next three games easily.	It may spur them on to achieving more in the future.
evp	spur	noun	1	C2	If you do something on the spur of the moment, you do it suddenly, without planning it.	On the spur of the moment we decided to go to London for the day.	In reality, many people buy things on the spur of the moment only to discover later that they, in fact, do not meet their expectations.
evp	spy	noun	1	B1	someone who secretly tries to discover information about a person, country, etc.	His father was a British spy.	It's a spy story.
evp	spy	verb	1	C1	to secretly try to discover information about a person, country, etc.	He was accused of spying.	Also, some countries have fears about foreigners coming from underdeveloped countries and may consider some of them as a source of troubles including crimes, spying and maybe terrorism.
evp	spy	verb	2	C2	to secretly watch someone	He spied on her through the keyhole.	Edmund starts spying on Charles to find out which his weaknesses are.
evp	squander	verb	1	C2	to waste time, money, etc.	He squandered all his money on alcohol and drugs.	By a quirk of fate, one day I realized that her parents were oblivious to the places that she visited or the products she squandered her money on.
evp	square	noun	1	A2	a shape with four equal sides and four 90° angles	First draw a square.	I'm writing to you because I bought some new shoes. I liked them because they have black and white little squares and they're very comfortable.
evp	square	noun	2	A2	an open area with buildings around it in a city or town	Many New York theaters and hotels are near Times Square.	Go up the street and turn left at the square.
evp	square	adjective	1	A2	having the shape of a square	The recipe recommends that you use a square cake pan.	I bought a pretty dress and a square bag.
evp	squash	verb	1	B2	to crush something into a flat shape	He accidentally sat on her hat and squashed it.	
evp	squash	verb	2	B2	to push someone or something into a small space	The kids were all squashed into the back seat.	My idea of fun is not getting up at seven o'clock in the morning to take a bus where we are squashed by lots of rude people we don't even know.
evp	squash	noun	1	B1	a sport in which two people hit a small rubber ball against the four walls of a room	a game of squash	In the club you can play golf, tennis, squash and football.
evp	squeak	verb	1	C2	to make a short, high sound	His shoes squeaked loudly as he walked.	The wood of the drawer squeaked.
evp	squeaky	adjective	1	C2	making short, high sounds	a squeaky voice	He pushed open the squeaky wooden entrance doors, noticing the smell of fresh cyan[-]colored paint.
evp	squeeze	verb	1	B2	to press something firmly	She squeezed his hand and said goodbye.	It must have been nine o'clock and I was there, sitting i] my armchair, squeezing a cushion in my arms.
evp	squeeze	verb	2	C1	to move somewhere where there is very little space	She squeezed through a narrow gap in the wall.	There are a huge number of workers every morning trying to squeeze through the tiny door.
evp	squeeze	verb	3	B2	to succeed in getting someone or something into a small space or object, often by pushing or forcing	We have four people in our car, but we could squeeze one more person in the back.	At the end of the day, I would not only be carrying a pile of shopping bags but also trying to squeeze in between other passengers on the train on my way home.
evp	squeeze	verb	4	C2	to manage to do something or see someone in a short period of time or when you are very busy	While we're in Australia, we're hoping to squeeze in a trip to the Barrier Reef.	Besides, the acquisition of two more TV sets and video cassette players would be extremely desirable as at the moment we have great difficulty in squeezing in video lessons in the timetable having only one video classroom available.
evp	stab	verb	1	B2	to push a knife into someone	She was stabbed in the arm.	She raised the knife high in the air and stabbed it right into her stomach.
evp	stability	noun	1	C1	when something is not likely to change or move	political/financial stability	In Yugoslavia sport was an important factor contributing to the overall stability of the federation.
evp	stable	adjective	1	C1	not likely to change, become worse, or end suddenly	Prices have remained fairly stable in recent years.	That is due to the low economic development of this country, which is nowadays relatively stable.
evp	stable	adjective	2	C1	mentally calm and not easily upset	He's not a very stable person.	Children with a good coping mechanism are emotionally stable in facing their problems.
evp	stable	noun	1	C2	a building where horses are kept	We put the horses in their stables.	Not only is the noise they make so unbearable that we cannot sleep or drop off in the afternoon, but your pilots seem to enjoy low-flying raids over our stables, thus disturbing our horses.
evp	stadium	noun	1	A2	a large building with rows of seats on many levels that surrounds an open area of land on which sports are played	Yankee Stadium	The town has a wonderful zoo with a lot of animals and a great stadium for soccer games.
evp	staff	noun	1	A2	the group of people who work for an organization or for a manager within an organization	There is a good relationship between staff and pupils at the school.	So I told my father to tell the staff of the hotel.
evp	stage	noun	1	A2	the raised area in a theater where actors perform	Hamlet is on stage for most of the act.	I can clean the stage, build the lighting and connect the P.A. (Power Amplifier).
evp	stage	noun	2	B2	a period of development, or a particular time in a process	The project is in its final stages and should be completed by August.	At that stage of our holiday, we stayed quiet for some days in order to rest a bit after all those hours of driving.
evp	stage	verb	1	C2	to organize and produce a performance of music or a play, etc.	They staged a free concert in Central Park.	My daughter's nursery school staged "Buratino."
evp	stagger	verb	1	C2	to walk as if you might fall	He staggered drunkenly towards the door.	Drearily and wearily they carried on, sometimes squelching through the mud, sometimes staggering on loose rocks.
evp	staggering	adjective	1	C1	very shocking and surprising	He earns a staggering amount of money.	However, it is expected to rise to a staggering 98% in 2010.
evp	stain	noun	1	B1	a dirty mark on something that is difficult to remove	a blood/grass stain	I realized that I had a stain on my trousers.
evp	stain	verb	1	C2	to leave a dirty mark on something which is difficult to remove, or to become dirty in this way	That juice stained my shirt.	If I may make a request, please, try not to spoil my best white tablecloth. And if you do stain it, don't use the bleach!
evp	stain	verb	2	C2	to permanently spoil something such as someone's reputation	Several politicians have had their reputations stained by the scandal.	All those "mistakes", to put it kindly, stain the public image of our association AND the hospital.
evp	staircase	noun	1	C1	a set of stairs and the structure around them	a spiral staircase	The second floor can only be accessed by an outside staircase or a pole that runs through the second floor, like those at fire fighters' stations.
evp	stairs	noun	1	A2	a set of steps which lead from one level of a building to another	Go up the stairs and her office is on the right.	I have left my backpack in your house. I think it is near the stairs.
evp	stairs	noun	2	C2	a set of stairs connecting one floor to another in a building	The elevator was broken so we had to climb six flights of stairs.	He descended a long flight of stairs and reached a door.
evp	stale	adjective	1	C1	old and not fresh	stale bread	Furthermore, the food was nothing special - the bread for breakfast was stale and the rice for dinner was cold.
evp	stall	noun	1	B1	a large table or a small shop with an open front from which goods are sold in a public place	In the village market, the stalls are piled high with local vegetables.	You know, there's a big commercial square near my house where traders, along with shops, set up stalls every day and sell an enormous variety of lifestyle products ranging from CDs and instruments to furniture and clothes.
evp	stamina	noun	1	C1	the physical or mental energy that allows you to do something for a long time	Marathon runners need a lot of stamina.	She is a healthy strong girl with stamina.
evp	stamp	noun	1	A2	a small, official piece of paper that you buy and stick onto a letter or package before you mail it to show that you have paid for postage	Do we have any stamps? I need to mail this letter.	My hobby is collecting stamps.
evp	stamp	verb	1	B2	to put a mark on an object either by printing on it or pushing into it with a small tool	It is necessary to stamp your passport.	There was only a small sign stamped on the door, saying that it was "closed for repairs".
evp	stamp	verb	2	C2	to put your foot down on the ground hard and quickly, often to show anger	"No!" she shouted, stamping her foot.	I missed him so, that even if he would pout and stamp his feet I would beam at him tenderly and kiss him gently on his cheek.
evp	stance	noun	1	C2	an opinion or belief about something, especially if you say it in public	What's their stance on nuclear energy?	For all the above-mentioned reasons, and as president of the local youth club, I would like to express my stance on this subject and offer viable solutions to the local council.
evp	stand	verb	1	A2	to be in a vertical position on your feet	He's standing over there, next to Karen.	I will stand at the front of my house.
evp	stand	verb	2	A2	to rise to a vertical position on your feet from sitting or lying down	I get dizzy if I stand up too quickly.	All the class stood up and sang "Imagine".
evp	stand	verb	3	B1	to hate someone or something	I can't stand him.	I can't stand small schools, so, I hope the larger one is the better.
evp	stand	verb	4	B2	to be in or to put something in a particular place or position	His walking stick stood by the door.	As he stepped forward I knelt down and pulled his leg, so that he fell over and hit a small table standing beside the sofa.
evp	stand	verb	5	C1	if a building stands, it has not been destroyed.	After the earthquake not a single building was left standing in the village.	The city was filled of magnificent monuments, some of them still standing today.
evp	stand	verb	6	C1	to be at a particular level, amount, height, etc.	Inflation currently stands at three percent.	It was overtaken by furniture and equipment, which stood at 23[%] in 2001, but only at 15% in 1981.
evp	stand	verb	7	C1	to be able to accept or deal with a difficult situation	She couldn't stand the pressures of the job.	Finally, last week we had a meeting and we decided to complain about that because nobody could stand the situation any more.
evp	stand	verb	8	C2	If it stands to reason that something happens or is true, it is what you would expect.	It stands to reason that a child who is constantly criticized will have little self-confidence.	So it stands to reason that there is no place for Piggy in Jack's world.
evp	stand	verb	9	C2	to be in a particular state or situation	The house stood empty for years.	The cottage next to ours stood empty.
evp	stand	verb	10	C2	If someone stands trial, they appear in a law court where people decide if they are guilty of a crime.	Berenson will stand trial next month in the county court.	He was going there in order to arrest Christians and bring them to Jerusalem to stand trial for their treason.
evp	stand	verb	11	C2	to be in a situation where you can get/lose money or an advantage	He stands to gain a fortune if the company is sold.	International tourism should be encouraged, rather than reduced, because countries that are still developing stand to gain a lot from visitors from other parts of the world.
evp	stand	verb	12	C2	what someone thinks about you, how they expect you to behave, and how they are likely to behave	He didn’t even send me a birthday card, so I guess I know where I stand.	
evp	stand	verb	13	C2	what your opinion is about something	The Senator has made it clear where she stands on these issues.	From where I stand, some action must be taken urgently because the problems are constantly exacerbating.
evp	stand	verb	14	C2	to have a chance of success or of achieving something	He doesn’t stand much of a chance in the election.	If this measure were taken, the outcome would be of fundamental importance for the currently unemployed because they will stand a chance of finding a job and making a living.
evp	stand	verb	15	C2	as something is now, without changes in it	The law as it stands is very unclear.	In my opinion, this debate is rooted in a deeper questioning of society's foundations: some people see society as it stands today as inherently flawed, an amorphous group of people who follow and worship anyone that gives them pleasure.
evp	stand	verb	16	C2	to refuse to change your opinion or give in to an argument	I kept trying to get my grandmother to find a smaller house, but she stood her ground.	She said she would stand her ground, and never, never falt]er
evp	stand	verb	17	C2	If you will not stand for something, you will not accept a situation or a particular type of behavior	I wouldn't stand for that sort of behavior from him, if I were you.	Much as I admire the performance of the new aircraft today, I understand your need to fly and test new technologies, but I will not stand for it any longer.
evp	stand	verb	18	B2	to move a short distance away from something or someone	Please stand back - then all of you will be able to see what I'm doing.	
evp	stand	verb	19	B2	to support or be loyal to someone	The boy’s friends stood by him, firmly convinced of his innocence.	And I promise I'll stand by you.
evp	stand	verb	20	B2	to support or represent a particular idea or set of ideas	This party stands for low taxes and individual freedom.	She said she would stand her ground, and never, never stagger.
evp	stand	verb	21	B2	If one or more letters stand for a word or name, they are the first letter or letters of that word or name and they represent it	"GMT" stands for Greenwich Mean Time.	
evp	stand	verb	22	C2	used with "not" to say you will not accept a situation or a particular type of behavior	Maybe you think his behavior is OK, but I won’t stand for it.	Much as I admire the performance of the new aircraft today, I understand your need to fly and test new technologies, but I will not stand for it any longer.
evp	stand	verb	23	C2	to do something that someone else was going to do because they cannot be there	She stood in for me when I was sick.	As I will be away these two days, I have asked Mr. Ryman's secretary Sandy, to stand in for me.
evp	stand	verb	24	B2	to be much better than other similar things or people	One candidate stood out from the rest.	Those small fishing villages will always stand out in my memory.
evp	stand	verb	25	B2	to be easy to see or notice	The bright blue letters really stand out on the page.	Why wasn't that money spent in trying to make them more bearable to look at] rather than making them stand out even more?
evp	stand	verb	26	B2	to fail to meet someone you have arranged to see	I was starting to think I'd been stood up when he finally arrived.	
evp	stand	verb	27	B2	to defend or support a particular idea or a person who is being criticized or attacked	It's high time we all stood up for our rights around here.	He decides to stand up for black rights and becomes an important leader.
evp	stand	verb	28	C1	to defend yourself against a powerful person or organization when they treat you unfairly	He wasn't afraid to stand up to bullies.	They say that the best things in life are for free, courage, hope, love for freedom and the power to stand up to others, defending one's own rights.
evp	stand	noun	1	C1	a table or small structure from which goods are sold or shown	a hot dog stand	What I aimed for was to get in touch with as many interesting companies as I could, and I really did it because there were lots of stands with a good choice of companies, ranging fro the biggest ones (IBB or Siemens, for example) to other smaller but also interesting.
evp	stand	noun	2	C2	to publicly defend something or stop something from happening	It's about time someone made a stand.	We cannot simply stand by while our greenery is being destroy]ed so I am making a stand.
evp	stand	noun	3	C2	a piece of furniture for holding things	a music/hat stand	We go backstage, the audience is still clapping and the people in the orchestra are beating with their bows on the music stands.
evp	standard	noun	1	B2	a level of quality, especially a level that is acceptable	safety standards	In conclusion, I hope that my ideas will help to improve the standards of this café and will bring more customers in the future.
evp	standard	noun	2	B2	how much money and comfort someone has	a low/high standard of living	I think we would have a better standard of living if we had this situation.
evp	standard	noun	3	C2	a level of behavior, especially a level that is acceptable	high moral standards	According to my moral standards, adults should not take advantage of children's lack of experience and they should certainly not incite them to tell lies and betray others.
evp	standard	adjective	1	B2	usual rather than special, especially when thought of as being correct or acceptable	a standard contract	It should be a standard price.
evp	standpoint	noun	1	C2	a particular way of thinking about a situation or problem	to look at something from a political/religious standpoint	From a moral standpoint it can be argued that the income distribution that comes from such incredible payments is unacceptable.
evp	star	noun	1	A2	a famous singer, actor, sports person, etc.	a rock/movie/basketball star	I really liked it because lots of soccer stars were there and both teams played very well, but Brazil won, of course.
evp	star	noun	2	A2	a ball of burning gases that you see as a small point of light in the sky at night	Stars twinkled/shone in the night sky.	Well, it's really big, with two windows to see the garden in the morning, and the stars at night.
evp	star	noun	3	A2	a shape or symbol with four or more points	star-shaped	It has pink flowers and blue stars.
evp	star	noun	4	C1	used to show how good a restaurant or hotel is	a five-star hotel	Also the facilities were great and people started building houses, and the small village became an attractive town with museums, universities, wonderful beaches, five-star hotels and other beautiful facilities.
evp	star	noun	5	C1	someone or something that is better than all the others in a group	He is one of our star players.	He led Brazil to win two more World Cups, and in both of them he was the star player, the black prince.
evp	star	verb	1	B1	If a film, play, etc. stars someone, or if someone stars in a film, play, etc., they are the main actor in it.	Ben Kingsley starred in the film "Gandhi."	As we both love romantic comedy, we decided to see Notting Hill together] which starred Julia Roberts and Hugh Grant.
evp	stardom	noun	1	C2	when someone is very famous for acting, singing, etc.	She is heading for stardom.	The phenomenon of stardom is a complex one.
evp	stare	verb	1	B2	to look at someone or something for a long time and not move your eyes	Don't stare at people like that, it's rude.	David had seen her once before in a park, staring at him.
evp	start	verb	1	A1	to begin doing something	When do you start your English course/your new job?	Dear Ramesh, I start my class at 9:30 am.
evp	start	verb	2	B1	to begin to happen or to make something begin to happen	His mother started the craft market at the community center.	After that we started a discussion about social life.
evp	start	verb	3	B2	If a business or other organization starts, or if someone starts one, it is created and starts to operate.	She started her own software company.	It was the first time in many years he had the opportunity or time to think over his situation and life. He had started his company fifteen years ago and had been successful.
evp	start	verb	4	B2	If you start a machine or an engine, you switch it on, and if a machine or engine starts, it begins to work.	The car wouldn't start.	The car would not start and it was impossible to get a taxi because it was Saturday evening, so the only thing we could do was to run all the way to the school.
evp	start	verb	5	B2	used before saying the first thing in a list of things	To start with, we need better computers. Then we need more training.	There is some information I should tell you about. To start with, the T.V. repairman didn't come on Wednesday morning as expected.
evp	start	verb	6	B1	to begin by doing something, or to make something begin by doing something	She started off the meeting with the monthly sales report.	We started off the trip by driving to the foot of the mountain, where there was a village.
evp	start	verb	7	C1	to begin your life, or the part of your life when you work, in a particular way	My dad started out as a sales assistant in a department store.	She is a beautiful, talented woman who started out as a small actress in her own country, climbing up to become the fully-recognized celebrity that she is now.
evp	start	noun	1	B1	the beginning of something	We were doubtful from the start.	My first experience was a good start, I could understand everything that the teacher said and I was also able to communicate with the other students, of course there are still mistakes which I will try to improve.
evp	start	noun	2	C2	an advantage that you have over someone else when you begin something	I'm grateful for the start I had in life.	With a better start in life these children will be less likely to end up on the street again.
evp	starvation	noun	1	C2	the state of having no food for a long period	These people are dying of starvation.	While a few decades ago people used to die from starvation even in industrialized countries like France, nowadays the situation has changed and food can be found so easily that it has become an increasing source of health-related problems when exceeded.
evp	starve	verb	1	C1	to become ill or die because you do not have enough food, or to make someone ill or die because they do not have enough food	Many people have starved to death in parts of Africa.	People were starving to death and various crimes took place.
evp	starving	adjective	1	B2	ill or dying because there is not enough food	starving people	What shocked me most was the misery and poverty: thousands of homeless people roaming the streets starving and cold.
evp	starving	adjective	2	B2	very hungry	I'm absolutely starving.	I've always been greedy, but at that moment, while my Chemistry teacher was explaining a difficult lesson, I was really starving.
evp	state	noun	1	B1	a part of a large country with its own government, such as in Brazil, Mexico, or the US	Alaska is the largest state in the US.	If you have time, you will enjoy walking in the mountains at Miras Gerais, which is an important Brazilian state. The sunset there is wonderful.
evp	state	noun	2	B2	the condition that something or someone is in	The building is in a terrible state.	Some people say TV can be harmful because it keeps our mind in a passive state.
evp	state	noun	3	C1	a country or its government	The drought is worst in the central African states.	I opted, since I must talk about my country's history, to choose an event not from the w]hol history of the Greek nation, but from that of the independent Greek state (kingdom or republic, it depends on the period), which had a life of about 270-280 years.
evp	state	verb	1	B2	to officially say or write something	Our warranty clearly states the limits of our liability.	Dear Mr Thomas, I've read your advertisement in the last issue of "The Traveller", where you state that you are looking for people to work on your campsites with English-speaking tourists.
evp	state	adjective	1	B2	provided, created, or done by a state in a country, or by the government of a country	a state government/legislature/law	Here in Argentina the rules at school depend on the school. In general, the rules at private schools are much strict]e than the ones at state schools.
evp	statement	noun	1	B2	something that someone says or writes officially	The candidate made a statement to the press.	Dear Editor Referring to your article of today, I want to correct some statements made]
evp	statement	noun	2	C2	a piece of paper that shows how much money you have put into your bank account and how much you have taken out	I always check my statement.	My collection consists of original, pre-WW2 hand-written documents - anything from love letters to bank statements, chores lists handed out to servants to pre-nuptial agreements, as long as it is hand-written, it finds its way to my archives.
evp	state-of-the-art	adjective	1	C1	using the newest ideas, designs, and materials	It is a computer system that uses state-of-the-art technology.	It is the impressive and simply state-of-the-art graphics that entice the player to spend hours in front of the screen.
evp	station	noun	1	A1	a building where trains or buses stop so that you can get on or off them	a train/bus station	I will meet you at the bus station.
evp	station	noun	2	B1	a company that broadcasts television or radio programs	a radio/television station	Last week I was listen]in to my favorite radio station and they announced a new sports club.
evp	statistic	noun	1	C1	a fact in the form of a number that shows information about something	The city’s most surprising statistic is its crime rate.	Wom[e]n have always been as bright and educated as men - statistics show that in Germany there are more women entering for exams at the universities than there are men.
evp	statistical	adjective	1	C1	relating to statistics	There is no statistical evidence to support his claims.	I just wondered why your newspaper didn't stick to the statistical figures and the pie chart we announced on the next day after the fund-raising activity.
evp	statistics	noun	1	B2	a collection of facts in the form of numbers that show information about something	The statistics show that, in general, women live longer than men.	According to statistics based on the questionnaire, the majority of students feel the most enthusiasm for their English class.
evp	statue	noun	1	B1	a model that looks like a person or animal, usually made from stone or metal	a statue of a boy	After, we passed in front of the statue of the president.
evp	status	noun	1	C1	an accepted or official position, especially in a social group	The association works to promote the status of retired people as useful members of the community.	Their status and income were shadowed by the state.
evp	status symbol	noun	1	C1	something that people want to have because they think it will make people admire them	For him, a big car is an important status symbol.	Jobs now play a very important role as status symbols.
evp	stay	verb	1	A1	to remain in a place, job, etc. and not leave	I have a meeting at three so I can’t stay long.	During the break times, I prefer to stay in the classroom just to read the French-English dictionary, so I learn or discover many other words that I can use in my speech.
evp	stay	verb	2	A2	to live or be in a place for a short time as a visitor	I stayed in Montreal for two weeks then flew home.	Last week I went to visit Egypt for 10 days. I stayed in Cairo 5 days. It's a good town but it's very busy.
evp	stay	verb	3	B1	to continue to be in a particular state	The supermarket stays open late.	Some people prefer to stay dry rather than be caught by the rain.
evp	stay	verb	4	C2	to remain in the same place and not leave there	He told me to stay put while he went to get the car.	It was extremely stressful and she didn't like the working conditions and atmosphere at work, but as it was difficult to find another job, she stayed put.
evp	stay	verb	5	C1	to remain away from something or to avoid something	Stay away from the edge of the cliff.	The place is small and with a lot of trees if you prefer to stay away from the hot summer sun or if you feel like having a picnic.
evp	stay	verb	6	C2	to remain at a place when other people leave it	Francine went on ahead and I stayed behind to wait for Annie.	The tourists were to stay behind, waiting for his return, so they all made themselves comfortable as well as they could.
evp	stay	verb	7	C2	to remain somewhere for a longer time than expected or after other people have left	His boss asked him to stay on as manager for another year.	Thus it can be seen in the novel that Olivia left her husband for another man and that she was determined to stay on in India in spite of her friends judging her.
evp	stay	verb	8	B2	to not come home at night, or to go home late	My folks don't let me stay out late.	Firstly, I like it so much because we have no school and we can stay out for as long as we want.
evp	stay	verb	9	C1	to not become involved in an argument or discussion	It's better to stay out of their arguments.	
evp	stay	verb	10	B2	to spend the night somewhere instead of returning to your home or continuing your journey	Why don't you stay over and drive back in the morning?	We stayed over in a hotel and the next morning Tom brought me home.
evp	stay	verb	11	B2	to go to bed later than usual	We stayed up (late) to watch a movie on TV.	In Vegas, we were staying up all night gambling.
evp	stay	noun	1	B1	a period of time that you spend in a place	Did you enjoy your stay in Tokyo?	I hope my stay in London will be an interesting experience, because I paid a lot for this trip.
evp	steadily	adverb	1	B2	at a gradual, regular rate	Prices have risen steadily over the last two decades.	Towns are growing steadily and as a result of this animals disappear because we destroy forests, lakes, etc.
evp	steady	adjective	1	B2	happening at a gradual, regular rate	Manufacturers have seen a steady increase/decline in profits.	There is also a steady rise in underweight young girls today.
evp	steady	adjective	2	B2	still and not shaking	You need steady hands to be a dentist.	I know very well you have steady nerves but what is strong can turn weak as well.
evp	steady	adjective	3	C1	not changing	She drove at a steady speed.	Once on the road, keep a steady speed (not too slow, not too fast) and try to look confident.
evp	steady	adjective	4	C2	a job that is likely to continue for a long time and pay you regular money	I wish he'd get a steady job.	They now had steady jobs, she reasoned; their time in college had been turbulent and not quite happy and they had badly needed a mother figure to see it through, but that time was over now.
evp	steak	noun	1	A2	a thick, flat piece of meat or fish	steak and potatoes	It was at the club and we had a steak and games at the pool.
evp	steal	verb	1	A2	to secretly take something that does not belong to you, without intending to return it	She admitted stealing the money from her employers.	All my friends gave me lots of presents, but I like the bike best. I like it because my bike was stolen.
evp	steam	noun	1	B2	the hot gas that is produced when water boils	Steam rose from the simmering stew.	I've been interested in trains, in particular steam trains, since my childhood.
evp	steam	noun	2	C2	to get rid of your anger, excitement, etc. by being noisy or using a lot of energy	The children need to run around and let off steam.	I believe that listening to it on a daily basis will be an ideal way for us to relieve the day's pressure and let off steam.
evp	steel	noun	1	B2	a very strong metal made from iron, used for making knives, machines, etc.	steel pipes	The object that I would choose is without any doubt my Katana, my Japanese Sword. It is a weapon that reminds me of my childhood games. I also like the form, and the cool steel of the blade.
evp	steep	adjective	1	B1	A steep slope, hill, etc. rises up high in a sudden, quick way.	a steep slope	But the slope was terribly steep and I didn't dare to ski down.
evp	steep	adjective	2	C1	A steep increase or fall in something is very big and quick.	There has been a steep increase/rise in prices.	Company A starts the year 1990 with a profit figure of five million dollars, there is a steep rise, and profits reach to up to ten million dollars by year 1995.
evp	steer	verb	1	B2	to control the direction of a vehicle	She carefully steered the car around the potholes.	After an hour she could keep her balance but she still had problems steering, but that didn't matter.
evp	steer	verb	2	C2	to avoid someone or something because they are unpleasant or dangerous	Steer clear of Tony this morning - he's in a bad mood.	Eating healthy doesn't mean starving, eating plants or steering clear of meat.
evp	steering wheel	noun	1	B2	a wheel that you turn to control the direction of a vehicle	He took both hands off the steering wheel.	After leaving your house on Monday morning, I gripped the steering wheel, fixed my eyes firmly on the road, and bravely drove my way up to Scotland.
evp	step	noun	1	B1	one of the movements you make with your feet when you walk	Sophie took her first steps when she was eleven months old.	I tried to run but with my first step, I kicked something that fell to the floor.
evp	step	noun	2	B1	one of the surfaces that you walk on when you go up or down stairs	Mom took a picture of us sitting on the front steps of the house.	I go down four steps and I am o] the beach!
evp	step	noun	3	B2	one of the things that you do to achieve something	What's the next step in the instructions?	We'd like to know how it feels to be in the film business, how you started and the steps you've taken to be where you are now.
evp	step	noun	4	C1	moving slowly from one stage of something to the next	I know there's a lot to prepare, but just take things step by step and don't worry.	The book actually guides you step by step on how you can cope with this fear and defeat it.
evp	step	noun	5	C2	to go back somewhere the same way that you came	I was lost so I retraced my steps.	Mentally retracing his steps of the morning, he remembered rushing out of his place at the last minute.
evp	step	verb	1	B1	to move somewhere by lifting your foot and putting it down in a different place	She stepped carefully over the dog.	The moment he stepped out of the train he realized he had left his suitcase inside.
evp	step	verb	2	B1	to put your foot on or in something	I accidentally stepped on her foot.	I had to dance with a boy whose name is Alex and every time he stepped on my feet.
evp	step	verb	3	C2	to leave an important job	She stepped down as captain of the swim team.	Thus, he decided to retire, to step down from the tough and competitive environment and planned for the rest of his life.
evp	stepfather	noun	1	B2	the man who is married to your mother but is not your father	His stepfather gave him a job.	Once, Matthew told Pat that he was mistreated by his stepfather in his childhood.
evp	stepmother	noun	1	B2	the woman who has married your father but is not your mother	My stepmother owns her own business.	He made up his mind to defeat them, and asked his stepmother for some kibidango, one of the traditional snacks in Japan.
evp	stereotype	noun	1	C1	a fixed idea that people have about what a particular type of person is like, especially an idea that is wrong	racial stereotypes	It seems commonly accepted that the new ''high-tech'' society has turned us into lazy people, without aims, targets, even hobbies in our spare time, unless watching videos or playing computer games. I am a student, I am young and I know a lot of people like me who do not fit in this stereotype.
evp	stereotypical	adjective	1	C2	having the qualities that you would expect a particular kind of person to have	a stereotypical student	Another person would rather perceive a stereotypical celebrity, a singer or a sports star as a greedy, self-absorbed and shallow pleasure seeker, concerned only with his or her own appearance and flaunting undeserved wealth.
evp	stern	adjective	1	C2	very serious and without any humor	a stern expression	He shot his sister Sarah a stern look which did not deter her from grinning maliciously.
evp	stick	verb	1	B1	to become joined to something else or to make something become joined to something else, usually with a substance like glue	Stick the tape on the back of the picture.	Then I am going to buy those glow-in-the-dark stars to stick on the ceiling, so that at night, I can see stars.
evp	stick	verb	2	B2	If something sharp sticks into something, it goes into it, and if you stick something sharp somewhere, you push it into something.	The nurse stuck the needle into his arm.	The body of his boss's wife lay on the ground, a knife stuck in her heart.
evp	stick	verb	3	C1	to continue to support someone when they are having problems	I'll stick by you whatever happens.	
evp	stick	verb	4	B2	to go past the surface or edge of something	Ryan's ears stick out a little, don't they!	The seat was damaged and something was sticking out.
evp	stick	verb	5	B2	to limit yourself to doing or using one particular thing and not change to anything else	Could you stick to the point, please?	I'll stick to baggy t-shirts, jeans, baseball caps and sneak]ers
evp	stick	verb	6	B2	If people stick together, they support and help each other.	If we all stick together, we can succeed.	Who would ever have thought that the little school band from the good old days would get so far? It must be at least 20 years since we left school, and I haven't seen any of the good old school mates for more than 10 years] but they must have stuck together.
evp	stick	verb	7	C1	to support someone or something when they are being criticized	I feel I have to stick up for him.	Two brothers Lev and Dmitri used to stick up for each other at school and could never be beaten at any physical sport because they were extremely strong.
evp	stick	verb	8	B2	to continue doing something or using someone to do work for you, and not stopping or changing to something or someone else	He said that he was going to stick with the traditions established by his grandfather.	[O]n Monday the 13 and Wednesday the 14 of March, we still stick with your plan.
evp	stick	noun	1	B1	a long, thin piece of wood, usually broken or fallen from a tree	The campers collected sticks to start a fire.	But when we ran into a quiet street, he stopped and hit me with a stick.
evp	stick	noun	2	B1	a long, thin piece of wood that you use when you are walking/playing hockey, etc.	She uses a walking stick.	I am very sad, because I have lost my hockey stick and it was very special to me; a very famous player gave it to me as a present.
evp	sticky	adjective	1	B1	made of or covered with a substance that can stick to other things	This tape is really sticky.	[On] the wedding day, everyone has a chance to eat special food: sticky rice cakes, spring rolls and a lot of other dishes]
evp	stiff	adjective	1	B2	hard and difficult to bend	I need a stiff piece of cardboard.	
evp	stiff	adjective	2	B2	not easy to move	a stiff neck	She tried to sit up straight and quickly realized all her muscles were stiff from non-activity.
evp	stiff	adjective	3	C2	behaving in a way that is formal and not relaxed	He was always very stiff with us.	In spite of his often stiff attitude, Mr. Stevens' very detailed description of their contact in the past and his eagerness to visit Miss Kenton in 1956 show that he does have strong feelings for her, even though he still hides this behind the eternal argument of "a need for contact of a purely professional character."
evp	stiff	adjective	4	C2	a strong alcoholic drink	I thought he could use a stiff drink after that car almost hit him.	Then, she prepared herself a stiff drink: gin and tonic with some ice, the very same one she used to have when Jack was there.
evp	stiff	adjective	5	C2	very severe or difficult	stiff competition/opposition	Furthermore, these budget airlines have given stiff competition to bigger airlines by reducing airfares.
evp	stiff	adverb	1	B2	extremely bored/scared/worried, etc.	I pretended to listen, but I was bored stiff.	Squeaky noises coming out from the deep corners of my house frightened me. I was scared stiff.
evp	still	adverb	1	A2	used to say that something is continuing to happen now or that someone is continuing to do something now	I'm still hungry.	So, I think my bag is still in my room.
evp	still	adverb	2	B1	despite that	You may not approve of what he did, but he's still your brother.	I was sure that it was not in my house but I still wanted to check.
evp	still	adverb	3	B2	even better	Give her a call, or better still go see her.	To my mind, the best place to do the painting is my bedroom, because you'll have plenty of space to work, and, better still, we won't bother anybody.
evp	still	adjective	1	B2	not moving	Children find it difficult to sit/stand/stay still for very long.	I'd like to have my dog painted, too, but I'm afraid that'll be impossible because it won't stay still!
evp	still	adjective	2	C2	Still water or air does not have waves or wind.	She dived into the still water of the lake.	At the foot of the monastery's ruins was a pool, wide and still, and smooth in the sunlight, surrounded by flowers and tall trees, wonderfully bloomed.
evp	stimulate	verb	1	B2	to encourage something to grow, develop or become active	The government plans to cut taxes in order to stimulate the economy.	This would hopefully stimulate the opening of several outdoor cafés downtown that we need as alternative meeting points for adults and youngsters.
evp	stimulate	verb	2	B2	to make someone excited and interested about something	The film was intended to stimulate and entertain.	I really enjoy watching the movies which are provided in your theater because all the movies that I have seen are thought-provoking enough to stimulate our interest.
evp	stimulus	noun	1	C2	something that makes something else happen, grow, or develop more	The report provided the stimulus for more studies.	Nicole saw these events as the pursuit of excellence, I tend to agree with her and find them advantageous because they can serve as a goal and as a motivational stimulus for many athletes.
evp	stir	verb	1	B1	to mix food or liquid by moving a spoon around and around in it	Stir the sauce gently until it begins to boil.	Then you add the instant sauce and stir.
evp	stir	verb	2	C2	to move slightly or make someone move slightly	The baby stirred in its sleep.	There is no wind, not a leaf is stirring.
evp	stir	verb	3	C2	to make someone feel a strong emotion	The case has stirred great anger among the public.	Clearly, that was what I found so intriguing about the event: that mesmerizing state of being united in awe - not being able to grasp fully the rationale behind the unpredictable turns history takes but feeling one's emotions stirred and expressing this frankly.
evp	stir	verb	4	C2	to cause arguments or bad feeling between people, usually on purpose	I think he just likes to stir up trouble.	She had a rough childhood and was constantly stirring up trouble.
evp	stitch	noun	1	C2	a short line of thread that is sewn through a piece of material	The stitches around the collar are coming undone.	
evp	stitch	noun	2	C2	one of the small pieces of thread that is used to sew together a cut	She needed 15 stitches in her head.	
evp	stock	noun	1	B2	the goods that are available in a store	This store sells its old stock at a discount.	In the fashion industry, a sale begins at the end of each season and just lasts a short time, because those shop owners want to make room for new stock.
evp	stock	noun	2	B2	available/not available in a shop	The book is out of stock at the moment.	And sometimes the item you are looking for is out of stock.
evp	stock	noun	3	C2	to think carefully about a situation before making a decision	We need to pause and take stock of what still needs to be done.	
evp	stock	verb	1	C1	to have something available for people to buy	We stock a good range of spices.	Besides, unless you are quite wealthy, you can only buy what is in the shops and these tend to stock only what is in fashion, so it is hard not to be 'in'.
evp	stocking	noun	1	C1	a very thin piece of clothing that covers a woman's foot and leg	a pair of stockings	Try to avoid miniskirts, fishnet stockings and sexy outfits in general, we are "mountain people" and are not very keen on this kind of fashion!
evp	stock market	noun	1	C1	the place where stocks and shares in companies are bought and sold	Stock markets around the world are reacting to news of the US president's announcement.	The second unlucky job was office workers whose business was related to the stock market in Korea.
evp	stomach	noun	1	A2	the organ inside your body where food goes after it has been eaten and where it starts to be digested	He has an upset stomach.	Because I'm going to see a doctor about my stomach, I'll miss the class tomorrow.
evp	stomach	noun	2	C2	likely to vomit	I feel sick to my stomach.	
evp	stomachache	noun	1	A2	pain in your stomach	I've got terrible stomachache.	I left because I have to see a doctor. It's important because I have a stomachache.
evp	stone	noun	1	B1	a hard, natural substance that is found in the ground	a stone wall/floor	There are houses made of stone and wood.
evp	stone	noun	2	B1	a hard, valuable substance that is often used in jewelry	precious stones	You know, that gold ring, with a little precious stone in the center, meant a lot to me, because it belonged to my older sister, Giulia.
evp	stone	noun	3	C2	a very short distance	The house is just a stone's throw from the beach.	Whatever you want it is a stone's throw from your home.
evp	stone	noun	4	C2	to do everything that you can in order to achieve something or to find someone or something	Both sides have vowed to leave no stone unturned in the search for peace.	She has left no stone unturned so as to reach her goal] always asserting her assets and views with conviction.
evp	stool	noun	1	B2	a seat that does not have a back or arms	a bar/kitchen/piano stool	Despite being provided with a machine which gives out hot and cold drinks, the cafeteria does not contain any table, stool or chair.
evp	stop	verb	1	A1	to not continue doing something that you were doing	Once I start eating chocolate, I can't stop.	Once you have started, you will not want to stop.
evp	stop	verb	2	A2	If a bus, train, etc. stops at a particular place, it pauses at that place so that people can get on and off.	Does this bus stop at Thirty-fourth Street?	The train stopped at the station.
evp	stop	verb	3	A2	to stop a trip or an activity for a short time	He stopped at a coffee shop for lunch.	We went cycling north, following the coast from a road and about four hours later we stopped at a beautiful beach, where we had a lot of fun.
evp	stop	verb	4	B1	to prevent someone from doing something or something from happening	Something must be done to stop the fighting.	I went and beat one of the guys to stop the fighting, however, the fighting didn't stop.
evp	stop	verb	5	B1	to not move any more or to make someone or something not move any more	Stop the car, I want to get out!	We were disappointed because we wanted to walk more and were ready to go home, but Sasha said: "Stop!"
evp	stop	verb	6	B1	to not continue to operate, or to make something not continue to operate	My watch stopped.	If I am driving my car and suddenly the engine stops working, I can call, from my cell phone] and ask for help.
evp	stop	verb	7	C1	to be willing to do anything in order to achieve something	He will stop at nothing to get what he wants.	They stopped at nothing to get the higher scores, to make themselves noticed, even if that meant telling some lies to a teacher about a schoolmate.
evp	stop	verb	8	C2	to almost do something but decide not to do it	She stopped short of accusing him of lying.	
evp	stop	verb	9	B2	to stop somewhere for a short period of time when you are on a long journey	We stopped over in Los Angeles for two nights on the way to New Zealand.	
evp	stop	noun	1	A1	a place where vehicles, especially buses, stop in order to allow passengers to get off and on	a bus stop	[The] bus stop is near the market.
evp	stop	noun	2	B1	when you stop an activity or trip, or a period of time when you stop	Please remain in your seat until the plane comes to a complete stop.	The best part was (without a doubt) when I made a little stop in a small town... I fell in love with that town!
evp	stop	noun	3	C1	to end something unpleasant	We must put a stop to the violence.	Maybe these new activities (video - video games), which are quite distracting, are at the same time so addictive that youngsters find it hard to put a stop to it.
evp	stopover	noun	1	B2	a short stop between parts of a trip	The plane tickets include a two-night stopover in Singapore.	We both thought that it was a good idea to have that stop-over at your place as it was on our route to Norway anyhow.
evp	storage	noun	1	B2	when you put things in a safe place until they are needed	We've had to build some cabinets to give us more storage space.	We would prefer a youth hostel or something similar. For us it is a better option because we will have a lot of equipment with us and staying in a campsite would not offer very much storage space.
evp	store	noun	1	A1	a building or part of a building where you can buy things	a shoe/jewelry/hardware/electronics store	Yesterday I went to a store, and I bought some new clothes.
evp	store	noun	2	C1	going to happen soon	You never know what's in store for you.	Nobody knows what the future will have in store!
evp	store	verb	1	B2	to put or keep things in a special place for use in the future	I stored my things at my mother's house while I was away.	Then we can just go to the fridge where all the fresh food is stored ready to eat.
evp	store	verb	2	B2	to keep information on a computer	The data is stored on a hard disk.	First of all, using a computer is important for me because I can store my personal records such as my diary or expenses.
evp	store	verb	3	C1	to remember things, usually so that you can tell people about them later	I've been listening to their conversations and storing it all up for future use.	Although I like people I often make fun of them or tell one of the many jokes stored up in my hopelessly overloaded brain.
evp	store	verb	4	C2	to keep something and not use it, so that it can be used in the future	She had stored up some nuts to use in the cake.	We become energetic and we can store up this energy for those times in which we're bound to a more tight or compulsory timetable.
evp	storm	noun	1	A2	very bad weather with a lot of rain, snow, wind, etc.	A lot of trees were blown down in the recent storms.	One day I was playing on the computer and my mother told me to turn it off because a storm was coming.
evp	stormy	adjective	1	B2	If it is stormy, the weather is bad with a lot of wind and rain.	a stormy night	It was a cold and stormy night.
evp	stormy	adjective	2	C1	A stormy relationship or situation involves a lot of anger and arguments.	a stormy relationship	I had not expected that you would contact me again (especially after our stormy discussion a month ago).
evp	story	noun	1	A2	a description of a series of real or imaginary events that is intended to entertain people	Will you read/tell me a story, daddy?	I want to sell an English book called "Cats and Dogs". There are lots of different and funny stories in it.
evp	story	noun	2	B2	a level of a building	a three-story house	It is a one-story building in the Russian style with one, rather small, room with a bar and 10 tables.
evp	story	noun	3	B2	a report in a newspaper or on a news broadcast of something that has happened	The main story in the papers today is the president's speech.	If someone famous goes to a pub, he should be careful what he drinks, because he could find an interesting story about his alcoholism in the newspapers tomorrow.
evp	story	noun	4	C1	to mention only the final result or point of something without going into other details	To make a long story short, he never played baseball again.	To make a long story short, my mother turned out to be an understanding person.
evp	story	noun	5	C2	an explanation of why something happened, which may not be true	Did he tell you the same story about why he was late?	Susan repeated the same story three or four times: Jason had come from work at 5 o'clock and she had gone to the grocer's to get some potatoes for dinner.
evp	stove	noun	1	A2	a large box-shaped device which is used to cook and heat food either by putting the food inside or by putting it on the top	a gas/electric stove	The fridge, the television, the stove and the Hi-Fi equipment will be attached to a computer network.
evp	straight	adjective	1	A2	not curved or bent	a straight line	She has straight blond hair and blue eyes.
evp	straight	adjective	2	B2	honest	a straight answer	I'm asking you to give us a reasonable and straight reply.
evp	straight	adjective	3	B2	in a position that is level or vertical	That shelf's not straight.	
evp	straight	adjective	4	C1	to make sure that you completely understand a situation	Let me get this straight - am I paying for this?	Next time you should try to get your facts straight.
evp	straight	adjective	5	C2	to manage to stop yourself from smiling or laughing	I can never play jokes on people because I can't keep a straight face.	
evp	straight	adverb	1	A2	in a straight line	Go straight, then turn left at the traffic light.	From my house we must go straight, then we must take second turn to the left.
evp	straight	adverb	2	B1	without pausing or delaying	I got home and went straight to bed.	When I came back home at 11:30, I went straight to bed.
evp	straight	adverb	3	B2	to sit or stand with your body vertical	Stand up straight and put your shoulders back!	She tried to sit up straight and quickly realized all her muscles were stiff from non-activity.
evp	straight	adverb	4	C1	If you cannot think straight, you are not thinking clearly about something.	I was so tired, I couldn't think straight.	My stress wouldn't let me think straight.
evp	straightforward	adjective	1	B2	easy to do or understand	The doctor gave a straightforward explanation of the operation.	The question of whether we should keep animals in zoos is not as straightforward as it may seem at first.
evp	strain	noun	1	B2	pressure put on something by a bad situation or by too much weight or force	All those books put a strain on the shelf and it broke!	I think I certainly could live without watching television for a week, but it would put a tremendous strain on my everyday life because I find watching TV relaxing and I like being swept by the flood of information that you watch and listen to without really paying attention to it.
evp	strain	noun	2	B2	when you feel nervous and worried about something	She's a lot better than she was but she's still not ready to face the stresses and strains of a job.	[Our dog helps us in our everyday life and relieves the stresses and strains.
evp	strain	noun	3	C2	an injury to part of your body that is caused by using it too much	back strain	
evp	strain	verb	1	B2	to injure part of your body by using it too much	I think I've strained a muscle.	I went to the optician's to have my eyes checked and he said I had some trouble with my eyesight, so he advised me to wear glasses and not to strain my eyes.
evp	strain	verb	2	C2	to cause too much of something to be used, especially money	The war is straining the defense budget.	It sounded very good, but I soon discovered that the service was quite inadequate and all the staff there had to say was that they couldn't do any more and that the budget was too strained.
evp	strand	noun	1	C2	a thin piece of hair, thread, rope, etc.	She tucked a strand of hair behind her ear.	She noticed a loose strand of white hair, and immediately pinned it back.
evp	strand	noun	2	C2	one part of a story, situation, idea, etc.	There are a number of different strands to the plot.	
evp	stranded	adjective	1	C2	unable to leave a place	We were stranded at the airport for ten hours.	Not a single member of the group would have imagined that the "Luxury coach" would break down and leave them stranded in the middle of nowhere, and what was worse without mobile network coverage.
evp	strange	adjective	1	A2	If something is strange, it is surprising because it is unusual or unexpected.	You say the strangest things sometimes.	Rebecca's present was very strange, she gave me a cat.
evp	strange	adjective	2	B1	A strange person or place is one that you are not familiar with.	I really don’t like strange people coming to my door.	She doesn't like a big city and strange people.
evp	strangely	adverb	1	B2	in a way that is unusual, unexpected or difficult to understand	She was strangely calm.	Strangely enough this has not happened yet to zoos.
evp	stranger	noun	1	B1	someone you have never met before	Mom always warned us to never talk to strangers.	I opened the door when I had heard the bell ringing. I saw a stranger standing in front of me.
evp	strap	noun	1	C2	a narrow piece of material used to fasten two things together or to carry something	a watch strap	When Cathy unwrapped the small parcel she found a little red book which had a slim strap with a tiny golden lock.
evp	strategic	adjective	1	C1	helping to achieve a plan, usually in business, politics, or war	strategic planning	This would prove to be a strategic advantage, given the relatively reduced financial power our company has currently.
evp	strategically	adverb	1	C2	in a strategic way	A few strategically placed police officers monitored the situation.	Large containers strategically situated along the village seem an appropriate solution.
evp	strategy	noun	1	B2	a plan that you use to achieve something	the administration's economic strategy	My strategy was simple: all the players had a lot of experience, so I thought that the only chance to win wa] to bluff it out.
evp	straw	noun	1	C1	the long, dried stems of plants such as wheat, often given to animals for sleeping on and eating	a straw basket/hat	Last but not least, many Japanese style hotels and restaurants now have square holes in tatami (straw mat) rooms so that foreign visitors can comfortably stretch their legs under the low table without having to be seated on folded legs like Zen monks!
evp	straw	noun	2	C1	the last in a series of unpleasant events which finally makes you stop accepting a bad situation	The last straw was when the company fired most of the managers.	The last straw was that as a result of the unrealized itinerary, I couldn't do what I had planned.
evp	straw	noun	3	C2	a thin plastic or paper tube that you use for drinking through	Could I have a straw, please?	
evp	strawberry	noun	1	B1	a small, red fruit with a green leaf at the top and small, brown seeds on its surface	I picked some fresh strawberries today - would you like some?	At first we drank something - it was a special drink with strawberries.
evp	stream	noun	1	B1	a small river	a mountain stream	On our way I saw small streams, small areas of jungle and beautiful animals also.
evp	stream	noun	2	B2	a continuous flow of things or people	There has been a steady stream of phone calls from worried customers.	This teahouse is packed throughout the day with workers and retired people, who come to sip tea, talk, and watch the endless stream of passers-by in the old city of China.
evp	street	noun	1	A1	a road in a town or city that has houses or other buildings	a street map	My street is quiet and friendly.
evp	street	noun	2	A1	used in the name of a street as part of an address	142 Ross Street	I live in a flat, number 66 New George Street.
evp	strength	noun	1	B2	the ability to do things that need a lot of physical effort or power	upper body strength	First of all, we must start by running for thirty minutes per day to improve our physical strength.
evp	strength	noun	2	C1	a good quality or ability that makes someone or something effective	We all have our strengths and weaknesses.	As everything, education in Spain has its strengths and weaknesses.
evp	strength	noun	3	C1	when you are brave or determined in difficult situations	I think she showed great strength of character.	All in all, being famous takes a lot of courage and strength of personality to be able to face fame and all the risks that come along with it]
evp	strength	noun	4	C2	the power or influence that an organization, country, etc. has	economic strength	Due to the very function of sports, a countr[y']s success in international competition has been associated with its general strength and viability and has consequently been a matter of national pride.
evp	strengthen	verb	1	B2	to become stronger or make something become stronger	exercises to strengthen the leg muscles	Using the bike keeps your body in good shape - the daily exercise is good for your heart and your lungs, and strengthens your muscles.
evp	strenuous	adjective	1	C2	using or needing a lot of effort	strenuous exercise	With the ever-growing influence of modern techniques, it has become increasingly important to strive for near perfection in every move they make; the pursuit of excellence therefore carrying more weight than ever and leading to strenuous training programs.
evp	stress	noun	1	B1	feelings of worry caused by difficult situations such as problems at work	People under a lot of stress may experience headaches, minor pains and sleeping difficulties.	I think you are all accustomed to city things, and all of them bring us stress, so I think you should go to the countryside, where you will find peace and so you'll relax.
evp	stress	noun	2	B2	when you say one part of a word more strongly than the rest	The meaning of a sentence often depends on stress and intonation.	
evp	stress	noun	3	C1	special importance that you give to something	At school, they laid/put/placed great stress on academic achievement.	On the other hand, I think they should put some more stress on improving their student's writing skills, even down to basics like grammar, because our sales people have to hand out a lot of written information as well, which will make us look much better - especially as far as the English-speaking market is concerned - if the English is flawless.
evp	stress	verb	1	B2	to emphasize something in order to show that it is important	I stressed that this was our policy.	I would like to stress that very often famous people become reserved, bad-tempered and angry with the world for interfering with their lives.
evp	stress	verb	2	B2	to say one part of a word more strongly than the rest	In the word "engine," you should stress the first syllable.	
evp	stressed	adjective	1	B1	worried and not able to relax	She just started a new job and is feeling pretty stressed.	I was a little bit stressed when I woke up in the morning.
evp	stressful	adjective	1	B1	making you feel worried and not able to relax	a stressful day/job	It is good to go there after a stressful day.
evp	stretch	verb	1	B2	to become longer or wider, or to pull something so that it becomes longer or wider	Don't pull my sweater - you'll stretch it.	
evp	stretch	verb	2	B2	to make your body or part of your body straighter and longer	"I'm so tired," he said, yawning and stretching his arms.	First of all cycling is a sport so you have the possibility to move your body, to stretch your joints and to strengthen your muscles.
evp	stretch	verb	3	C2	to cover a large area	The fields stretched away into the distance.	I remember playing in the fields that stretched out to the horizon and sailing and swimming in the streams and lakes surrounding the small village where my parents live.
evp	stretch	noun	1	C1	a continuous area of land or water	This particular stretch of coast is especially popular with walkers.	There's a stretch of coastline in the South East of Spain that one could still call "real Spain" not many years ago.
evp	strict	adjective	1	B1	A strict person makes sure that children or people working for them behave well and does not allow them to break any rules.	a strict teacher	The teacher was strict but nice.
evp	strict	adjective	2	B2	If a rule, law, etc. is strict, it must be obeyed.	She gave me strict instructions to be there by ten.	I would like the government to impose strict rules and regulations on capturing animals.
evp	strict	adjective	3	B2	always behaving in a particular way because of your beliefs	She's a strict vegetarian, so she doesn't eat poultry or fish.	When organizing our lunch, please note that seven of us are strict vegetarians.
evp	strict	adjective	4	C2	exactly correct	a strict translation of a text	You mustn't take this in its strict sense; when I say "severe," I mean aware and mindful of today's problems.
evp	strictly	adverb	1	B2	exactly or correctly	That's not strictly true.	Strictly speaking, we don't think about the future when the subject is nature because we think that it's eternal.
evp	strictly	adverb	2	B2	used to emphasize that something is not allowed	The use of cameras is strictly forbidden.	Eric was going to have serious problems, because smoking was strictly forbidden in this school.
evp	strike	verb	1	B1	to hit someone or something	Two climbers were struck by falling rocks.	Only seconds later, the tree was struck by lightning.
evp	strike	verb	2	B2	If a thought or idea strikes you, you suddenly think of it.	It struck me that I had forgotten to order the champagne.	Sitting there, waiting, I began to think and an idea struck me.
evp	strike	verb	3	B2	used when talking about a very obvious quality that you noticed when you first saw or met someone or something	What strikes me about Cole is how grown-up he seems for a seven-year-old.	What strikes me most is the way she is dealing with other people.
evp	strike	verb	4	B2	to stop working for a period of time because you want more money, better working conditions, etc.	Flight attendants are threatening to strike to get more flexible schedules.	The town['s] transport workers have started to strike."
evp	strike	verb	5	C1	to give two things the same amount of attention	It's important to strike a balance between spending and saving.	Everything has good and bad sides, the most important thing is to strike a balance.
evp	strike	verb	6	C2	If someone or something strikes you as having a particular quality, they seem to have that quality.	He didn't strike me as a passionate man.	Mrs. Kingshaw strikes me as a rather frivolous woman.
evp	strike	verb	7	C2	to find a supply of gold, oil, etc. in the ground	They hope to strike oil in the desert.	Their very own father had struck oil, made tons of money with it and did not even want to give some to his children.
evp	strike	verb	8	C2	to light a match in order to produce fire	I struck a match and lit the candle.	Their instant reaction was to park the car, put their raincoats on, get out and strike a few useless matches: they were their last light resource apart from the lightning in the sky and the weak head]lights
evp	strike	verb	9	C2	If something bad strikes something or someone, it affects them strongly and quickly.	The hurricane struck the coast at about eight in the morning.	And there had been the blight which struck half of the plantation.
evp	strike	noun	1	B1	a period of time when people are not working because they want more money, better working conditions, etc.	The city's bus drivers have been on strike for three weeks.	Indeed, the bus company has planned a strike.
evp	striker	noun	1	C1	someone who is on strike	Managers have threatened to fire the strikers.	There were also people who agreed with the strikers.
evp	striking	adjective	1	B2	easily noticed	There are striking similarities between the two cases.	The most striking thing was the fact that I filed it.
evp	string	noun	1	B2	very thin rope used for tying things	a bundle tied with string	[W]e used to have oil lamps, which used a cotton string dipping in the oil in a small bottle, and we burned the tip of the cotton string to give us light during the night time, it was very little light, and many things we couldn't do under the oil lamps because the light range was very small.
evp	string	noun	2	B2	a piece of wire or cord that is part of a musical instrument and that produces musical notes when played	guitar/violin strings	We had been playing six numbers already when it happened: my bottom E string broke in the middle of my solo.
evp	string	noun	3	C2	a number of similar things	a string of questions	Cities have grown, bringing with this growth a string of problems which were not thought of years ago.
evp	string	noun	4	C2	to secretly use the influence that you have over important people to get something or to help someone	I may be able to pull a few strings, if you need the money urgently.	This isn't secret: I thought some of these ideas might be of interest and perhaps an article about them i] your newspaper would pull the necessary strings at the City Hall to produce some very much needed changes.
evp	string	noun	5	C2	If there are no strings attached to an offer or arrangement, there is nothing that is unpleasant that you have to accept.	I'll drive you home - no strings attached.	It is not that often that one comes across true "no strings attached" generosity.
evp	strip	noun	1	C1	a long, narrow piece of something	a strip of paper	After that workers had to use the most basic tools and their hands to produce socks from the strips of silk.
evp	stripe	noun	1	B1	a long, straight area of color	The zebra is a wild African horse with black and white stripes.	I don't like clothes with stripes, because I think that's a little old-fashioned.
evp	strive	verb	1	C2	to try very hard to do or achieve something	to strive for happiness/peace	The credit belongs to the man who is actually in the arena, who strives valiantly, [...] who, at best, knows the joys of high achievement, and who, at worst, if he fails, at least fails while daring greatly.
evp	stroke	noun	1	B2	a sudden problem in your brain that changes the flow of blood and makes you unable to move part of your body	She suffered/had a stroke that left her unable to speak.	I'm sure there's a high risk of a heart attack or a stroke if you go on the way you are going now.
evp	stroke	noun	2	C1	a style of swimming	What stroke do you prefer?	Although both may know how to swim, the professional, who was trained in proper strokes and hydrodynamics, will definitely turn out the better swimmer.
evp	stroke	noun	3	C2	something good that happens to you by chance	He had exactly the part that I needed so that was a stroke of luck.	After a one-hour interview she was asked whether she could start work the very next day. A real stroke of luck.
evp	stroke	noun	4	C2	a movement that you make against something with your hand, a pen, brush, etc.	a brush stroke	The power of the brush strokes and the intense energy in the image made me sigh with adoration.
evp	stroke	verb	1	B2	to gently move your hand over a surface	Stroke the dog if you like, it won't bite.	And do not forget to stroke your cat!
evp	strong	adjective	1	A2	A strong person or animal is physically powerful.	strong arms/legs	I like this game because the story is very good end the protagonist is so strong!
evp	strong	adjective	2	B1	A strong object does not break or get damaged easily.	a strong box/chair	In winter I wear big jackets, gloves, warm trousers and strong boots.
evp	strong	adjective	3	B1	very noticeable or powerful	strong coffee	We took a lot of food and water, because of the weather which was very hot, with a strong sun.
evp	strong	adjective	4	B1	produced using a lot of power	a strong kick/blow	Unluck[i]ly, the rest of the days were cloudy and with strong winds.
evp	strong	adjective	5	B1	Strong relationships last for a long time, and are not easily spoiled.	strong relationships	Actually, now our relationship is very strong.
evp	strong	adjective	6	B2	of a good quality or level and likely to be successful or effective	a strong economy	My reason for applying for this trip is that I am very interested in meeting people from different countries and as I have a strong background in languages I would be very helpful in the communication field.
evp	strong	adjective	7	B2	A strong feeling, belief, or opinion is felt in a very deep and serious way.	She has strong opinions/views.	Nowadays the importance of family life is a matter which arouses fiercely strong passions.
evp	strong	adjective	8	B2	If a person or their personality is strong, they are confident and able to deal with problems well.	All my aunts are strong women.	Mary was a strong and intelligent woman. She was stronger and her personality was more developed than her aunt['s].
evp	strong	adjective	9	C1	words that some people might consider to be offensive	The movie contains strong language.	But what I do see is local kids standing on the corner, chatting, smoking and using strong language.
evp	strong	adjective	10	C1	something that someone is very good at	Cooking is not my strong point.	She's got a lot of strong points, more than weaknesses.
evp	strong	adjective	11	C2	something that is very likely to happen	There's a strong possibility of rain this afternoon.	
evp	strong	adjective	12	C2	a lot of opposition/support, etc.	There has been strong opposition to the cuts.	Therefore, in spite of strong opposition by the car companies and people's egoistic interests, car traffic should be gradually reduced and eventually prohibited.
evp	strong	adjective	13	C2	continuing to be successful or healthy after a long time	The club was set up in 1987, and it's still going strong.	I am proud of him and happy that he is still going strong.
evp	strongly	adverb	1	B2	very much or in a very serious way	They strongly believe their children should make choices for themselves.	I strongly disagree with the statement saying that "At school, students should only study what they enjoy".
evp	structural	adjective	1	C2	relating to the structure of something	structural damage	Moreover, Hong Kong has been undergoing various structural changes and economic issues since the financial turmoil in 1998.
evp	structure	noun	1	B2	the way that parts of something are arranged or put together	the grammatical structure of a sentence	On the other hand, as far as the Greek language is concerned, I think it would be very hard for you and for everybody to learn it because of its difficult and very complicated grammar, vocabulary and structure.
evp	structure	noun	2	C2	a building or something that has been built	The house was a wooden structure.	For example, for most foreign visitors to Japan I think it is a wonderful experience to go to Nara city and see the world's oldest and biggest wooden structure, or to see traditional Noh dance and Kabuki play.
evp	structure	verb	1	C2	to arrange something in an organized way	How is the course structured?	Since women in the Western countries started working in the 70s, there has been a big change in the way our family life is structured.
evp	structured	adjective	1	C2	organized so that the parts relate well to each other	a structured series of lectures	The exchange of political or economic ideas, as well as new technology, can provide the basis for a structured development of which could emerge a just and truly happy society.
evp	struggle	verb	1	B2	to try very hard to do something difficult	He's been struggling to pay off his debts.	Think about the people in the poor countries! They struggle to survive.
evp	struggle	verb	2	B2	to fight someone when they are holding you	He struggled with the stranger who had suddenly grabbed his arm.	I bit his hand and ran to the phone. He reached me and we struggled for 10 minutes.
evp	struggle	verb	3	C2	to use a lot of effort to defeat someone or prevent something	For years she struggled with/against the establishment to get her theories accepted.	Just like Mahatma Gandhi, who advocated non-violent methods of struggle, Picasso struggled against Fascism by peaceful means, namely with his art.
evp	struggle	noun	1	B2	when you try very hard to do something difficult	It was a real struggle to stay awake during the movie	Their life was a severe financial struggle, and Tom's dream was to run somewhere far away.
evp	struggle	noun	2	B2	a physical or mental fight	a struggle with cancer	My friend started to walk into the water when suddenly a crocodile grabbed her leg. After a long struggle, she managed to get herself up on land.
evp	stubborn	adjective	1	B2	determined not to change your ideas, plans, etc., although other people want you to	He can be very stubborn sometimes.	Anyway, Alex was too stubborn to give up and it was like talking to a brick wall.
evp	stubbornness	noun	1	C2	the quality of being stubborn	We were infuriated by his stubbornness.	Henry's words do not fail to show his royal stubbornness, only comparable to that of a mule.
evp	stuck	adjective	1	B2	not able to move anywhere	This door seems to be stuck.	You want to go to your job, to an important appointment or to the hospital because you have a health problem and you are always stuck in traffic.
evp	stuck	adjective	2	C1	not able to continue reading, answering questions, etc. because something is too difficult	I keep getting stuck on difficult words.	I have got stuck so many times. However, whenever I got stuck, I said to myself that nobody could speak a foreign language fluently from the beginning.
evp	stuck	adjective	3	C2	to have to deal with someone or something unpleasant because no one else wants to	Whenever we eat out, I always get stuck with the bill.	Therefore you are stuck with "aunt Mabel" having fun while pulling your leg. What you mustn't do in this sort of situation is lose your temper.
evp	student	noun	1	A1	a person who is learning at a school or in college	a law student	I'm a student at a college in Gloucester.
evp	studio	noun	1	B1	a room where television/radio programs are made or music is recorded	She spent three months in the studio working on her latest album.	He offered me a contract and asked me to go to his music studio to record a CD.
evp	studio	noun	2	B1	a movie company or a place where movies are made	a movie/film studio	We will visit a local film studio.
evp	studio	noun	3	B2	a room where an artist, designer or photographer works	She has a studio at the back of the house where she does her painting.	I'll be very happy if you can give me a chance to use the camp's art studio and hope you'll be able to prepare some materials like oil paints, canvas and brushes for me.
evp	stuff	noun	1	B1	used to refer to a substance or a group of things, ideas,  etc., without saying exactly what they are	There's sticky stuff all over the chair.	Talking about accessories, I like using caps, jewelry, belts, purses and all that stuff.
evp	stuff	noun	2	C2	to know a lot about a subject, or to be very good at doing something	She's an excellent teacher - she really knows her stuff.	The thing was that she should have been be able to tell them what to do; she never doubted her own abilities. She knew "her stuff" all right.
evp	stuff	verb	1	C2	to push something into a small space, often quickly or in a careless way	He stuffed the papers into his briefcase and left.	A casserole stood on the stove waiting for his arrival and the freezer and fridge were stuffed full with food for the week he would be here.
evp	stumble	verb	1	C2	to step badly and almost fall over	Mary stumbled on the loose rocks.	My attic was so dark that I stumbled and fell.
evp	stumble	verb	2	C2	to make a mistake, such as pausing or repeating a word, while speaking or performing	He kept stumbling over the same word.	One of the new-stars worried so much that she began stumbling over the words in the middle of her hit.
evp	stumble	verb	3	C2	to discover something by chance, or to meet someone by chance	I stumbled across these photographs while I was cleaning out my desk.	After months of property website surfing and house-hunting over weekends, we finally stumbled upon this amazing end of terrace house in Lavender Road.
evp	stunned	adjective	1	C2	very surprised and shocked	We were stunned by the news of her death.	I was stunned and gaped at him with blank horror.
evp	stunning	adjective	1	B2	very beautiful or attractive	a stunning dress	I think that it would be ideal for you to go there and take some pictures of it since the architecture is absolutely stunning!
evp	stupid	adjective	1	B1	silly or not intelligent	I just made a stupid mistake.	[The coach said that we must learn to be like Rambo! But I think that's stupid, because in football you can't be like Rambo.
evp	stupidity	noun	1	C2	the state of being unwise or not intelligent	The accident was caused by my own stupidity.	The most important point however was that I found out that our two countries have similar problems and that prejudices against any country or people are based on stupidity and intolerance.
evp	style	noun	1	B1	a way of doing something that is typical of a particular person, group, place, or period	a style of painting/writing	I love Hip Hop music. This style of music is my life.
evp	style	noun	2	B1	a way of designing hair, clothes, furniture, etc.	She's had her hair cut in a really nice style.	And they like the same style of clothes as I do]
evp	style	noun	3	B2	the quality of being attractive and fashionable or behaving in a way which makes people admire you	She's got style.	But when he came back, his popularity was increased. That's reasonable, because he's got style, he is authentic and brilliant.
evp	style	noun	4	C2	to prevent someone from enjoying themselves, especially by going somewhere with them	Are you sure you don't mind me coming with you? I'd hate to cramp your style.	I would never want neither to cramp their style nor to make them feel unimportant, lonely or lost.
evp	stylish	adjective	1	B1	fashionable and attractive	a stylish black suit	I pay attention to fashionable and stylish clothes, of course, if they don't seem strange or unusual.
evp	subconsciously	adverb	1	C2	without being consciously aware of something	I think that subconsciously I knew I was in danger.	It is probably only wishful thinking that most people would wake up every morning wondering how to make the world a better place. In fact, most of us do it subconsciously.
evp	subject	noun	1	A1	an area of knowledge which is studied in school or college	My favorite subjects are history and geography.	I have several subjects: History, English, literature. It's not the same subject every day.
evp	subject	noun	2	B1	the person or thing which performs the action described by the verb	"Bob" is the subject of the sentence "Bob threw the ball."	
evp	subject	noun	3	B1	what someone is writing or talking about	Our subject for discussion is homelessness.	She likes swimming and practising yoga. In fact, this was the subject of our first lesson.
evp	subject	noun	4	B2	to start talking about a different subject	I'd tried to explain the situation, but he just changed the subject.	Well, changing the subject, I accidentally broke your beautiful vase. I'm really sorry, I'll try to find another vase that looks similar.
evp	subject	adjective	1	C1	often affected by something, especially something unpleasant	Departure times are subject to alteration.	Of course these are only suggestions subject to changes and modifications.
evp	subject	adjective	2	C2	only able to happen if something else happens	The agreement is still subject to approval by the League's 30 teams and the players.	
evp	subject	adjective	3	C2	a person who is written about in a book or who is shown in a picture	Rembrandt is the subject of her latest novel.	No matter wherever we go, enjoying the beauty of the city, walking through the J[ew]ish district, discussing the subject of a painting or just sitting in silence, the world is real only with him.
evp	subject	verb	1	C2	to make someone or something experience something unpleasant	In prison, he was subjected to beatings and interrogations.	Homeless people are subjected to a very harsh and unhealthy style of life.
evp	subjective	adjective	1	C1	influenced by someone's beliefs or feelings, instead of facts	a subjective judgment	I really love my city and country, but I am afraid I'm a little bit subjective.
evp	submit	verb	1	B2	to send a document, plan, etc. to someone so that they can consider it	Applications must be submitted before January 1st.	According to my friends and professors, I am hardworking and never fail to submit my essays on time]
evp	submit	verb	2	C2	to accept that someone has control over you and do what they tell you to do	He was forced to submit to a search.	Kingshaw has to submit to the role of victim once more.
evp	subsequent	adjective	1	C1	happening after something else	The mistakes were corrected in a subsequent edition of the book.	With a rapid economic growth and a subsequent increase in income level, working life in Korea has changed dramatically.
evp	subsequently	adverb	1	C1	after that	In 1982 he was arrested and subsequently convicted on drug trafficking charges.	The evaporated water subsequently condenses in the sky and later drops down as rain.
evp	subsidy	noun	1	C1	money given by a government or other organization to pay part of the cost of something	housing subsidies for the poor	The rest of the money could be spent on subsidies for home owners and tenants and offering loans with a lower interest rate.
evp	substance	noun	1	B2	a solid, liquid, or gas	an organic/chemical substance	Chemical substances are added to our food.
evp	substance	noun	2	C2	the most important part of what someone has said or written	The substance of his argument is that men are more logical than women.	
evp	substantial	adjective	1	B2	large in amount	a substantial sum of money	The taxis: Considerin[g] that you are willing to spend quite a substantial amount of money, this is the best transport one can get.
evp	substantially	adverb	1	C1	to a large degree	The new rules will substantially change how we do things.	The quality of the individual classes differed substantially.
evp	substitute	verb	1	B2	to use someone or something instead of another person or thing	You can substitute oil for butter in this recipe.	[M]y opinion is that we shouldn't substitute one for the other, but read one and watch the other.
evp	substitute	noun	1	B2	a thing or person that is used instead of another thing or person	Tofu can be used as a meat substitute in vegetarian recipes.	I had been looking forward to seeing his performance for ages, so as soon as I realized there was a substitute on the stage, I was really disappointed.
evp	substitution	noun	1	C1	when you use someone or something instead of another person or thing	The coach has made two substitutions on the team.	The gradual substitution of the old bus fleet with a modern one would be a serious effort, and it would demand buckets of money.
evp	subtitles	noun	1	C1	words shown at the bottom of a movie or television screen to explain what is being said	It's a French movie with English subtitles.	Another way of improving language is to project each film with subtitles.
evp	subtle	adjective	1	C2	not obvious or easy to notice	a subtle change/difference	You will have to find your own subtle balance between the number of radiators you use and the opening of windows to create a suitable atmosphere.
evp	subtle	adjective	2	C2	A subtle flavor, color, etc. is delicate and not strong or bright.	The garlic has a more subtle flavor than you might imagine.	What attracts your attention most are the colors: warm, pleasant to the eye, subtle and somewhat unrealistic.
evp	subtle	adjective	3	C2	clever in a way that does not attract attention	a subtle way of solving the problem	That is indeed a subtle talent, being able to balance between deciding and listening.
evp	suburb	noun	1	B2	an area near a large city where many people who work in the city live, containing homes and towns or smaller cities	She lives in the Chicago suburbs.	Peterhof is only a small suburb of St. Petersburg and it is not famous for its nightlife.
evp	subway	noun	1	A1	a system of trains that travel underground	We can take the subway to Grand Central Station.	The conference will take place at the Palace Hotel which can be reached by subway, taxi and bus.
evp	succeed	verb	1	B1	to achieve what you are trying to achieve	She’s been trying to pass her driving test for months and she finally succeeded.	More will follow in the future: I am sure that finally I will succeed in managing English in an acceptable way!
evp	success	noun	1	B1	when you achieve what you want to achieve	I'm not having any success reaching him by phone.	I searched in the taxi-cab and in the company with no success.
evp	success	noun	2	B1	something that has a good result or that is very popular	The movie is a big/huge box-office success.	And lastly the rest of the space we can use for further information and details about the history of our school and our successes in the past.
evp	successful	adjective	1	B1	achieving what you want to achieve	a successful operation	Our project was really very successful and we also won a prize.
evp	successful	adjective	2	B2	having achieved a lot or made a lot of money through your work	a successful artist/author/lawyer/doctor	I would like to finish by asking Mr. Smith to talk a bit about his life and his successful career.
evp	successful	adjective	3	B2	very popular	a successful film	I suppose the facts about your film career, especially about your first film and your most successful film would be pretty interesting as well]
evp	successfully	adverb	1	B2	in a way that is successful	A number of patients have been successfully treated with the new drug.	As you can see, I managed to do the project successfully.
evp	successive	adjective	1	C2	happening after each other	He has just won the World Championship for the third successive year.	Their bodies no longer get worn out by successive pregnancies thanks to birth control medicines and techniques.
evp	successor	noun	1	C1	someone who has a position or job after someone else	He is her most likely successor.	Cleopatra fell in love with him but he was murdered by his nephew and successor Octavio.
evp	successor	noun	2	C2	an organization, product, etc. that follows and takes the place of an earlier one	This range of computers is very fast, but their successors will be even faster.	The natural successor of the car was first thought of in the late seventies, but due to lack of computing power for the control systems, the dual mode vehicle was never made.
evp	succumb	verb	1	C2	to not be able to stop yourself from doing something	I succumbed to temptation and had some cheesecake.	As days went by, I became more anxious and finally had to succumb to the urge to go to the game.
evp	succumb	verb	2	C2	to die or suffer badly from an illness	Many of them succumbed to cholera.	Could he have succumbed to the cold? or maybe hunger?
evp	suck	verb	1	C2	to use your tongue and cheek muscles to eat something in your mouth or to pull liquid or air into your mouth	to suck a lollipop	He laughed at me and told me that he poisoned the pages of the diary so he would suck his fingers to turn the pages and die.
evp	sudden	adjective	1	B2	done or happening quickly and unexpectedly	His sudden death came as a shock to everyone.	After arriving in Vienna, Martins was really shocked when he got to know about his friend's sudden death.
evp	sudden	noun	1	B2	suddenly and unexpectedly	All of a sudden we heard a loud knock on the door.	All of a sudden, a weird creature popped into his dream.
evp	suddenly	adverb	1	B1	quickly and unexpectedly	I don't remember much about the accident -  it all happened so suddenly.	Suddenly a car appeared at the end of the street.
evp	sue	verb	1	C1	to take legal action against someone and try to get money from them because they have harmed you	He's threatening to sue the newspaper for slander.	If you do not pay attention to any of my complaints and if I do not hear from you within 15 working days, I will not hesitate to sue you.
evp	sufferer	noun	1	C2	someone who suffers from an illness or other health problem	AIDS/cancer sufferers	The body becomes more and more frail and prone to illnesses so that the last ten years of the unnaturally prolonged life are spent in pain and agony, with the sufferer quite often acutely aware of his decaying and incapable body.
evp	suffering	noun	1	B2	when someone experiences pain or unpleasant emotions	The war will cause widespread human suffering.	There had been too much suffering for days, months, years.
evp	sufficient	adjective	1	B2	as much as is necessary	This recipe should be sufficient for five people.	To resolve that, try to have a sufficient amount of sleep so that both your body and mind will keep fit.
evp	sufficiently	adverb	1	C1	as much as is necessary	McGeechan has not recovered sufficiently to play in the semifinal tomorrow.	As for me, I like to think that my situation will be better than those who are not educated sufficiently.
evp	suffix	noun	1	B2	a group of letters that you add to the end of a word to make another word	The suffix "-ness" added to the end of the word "sweet" forms the word "sweetness," changing an adjective into a noun.	
evp	sugar	noun	1	A1	a sweet substance used to give flavor to food and drinks	I don't take sugar in my coffee, thanks.	I like to eat chicken with bread and tea without sugar.
evp	suggest	verb	1	B1	to express an idea or plan for someone to consider	I suggest that we ask someone for directions, or we’ll never find the place.	I also suggest you should go to the Alps because there is a lot of beautiful scenery and if it's winter there are many places to ski.
evp	suggest	verb	2	B1	to say that someone or something is suitable for something	Can you suggest a good hotel?	I suggest the "Renoir."
evp	suggest	verb	3	B2	to make something seem likely to be true	The evidence suggests this was the original site of the settlement.	So animals cannot be as unhappy as the topic suggests.
evp	suggestion	noun	1	B1	an idea or plan that someone suggests	We don't know where to eat out tonight - have you got any suggestions?	Now I want to give you some suggestions that will be useful for you.
evp	suggestion	noun	2	C2	something that makes something seem likely to be true	There's no suggestion of any connection between the two men.	
evp	suicide	noun	1	B2	when you intentionally kill yourself	to attempt/commit suicide	The savage thinks he can change it but fails and commits suicide by hanging himself.
evp	suit	noun	1	A2	a set of clothes consisting of a jacket and pants or a jacket and skirt made from the same material	She wore a dark blue suit.	I got a beautiful suit.
evp	suit	noun	2	C2	to do the same as someone else has just done	If other shops lower their prices, we will have to follow suit.	Bitten by a insurmountable curiosity she goes to India to find out about her and she even follows suit: she ends up in the Himalay[a]s driven by a strong desire to know more.
evp	suit	verb	1	B2	to be convenient or suitable for a particular person, situation or occasion	We could go now or this afternoon - whatever time suits you best.	If you find it difficult to arrange your visit for these two dates, please let us know which other Sunday would suit you most.
evp	suit	verb	2	B2	to make someone look more attractive	You should wear more red - it suits you.	You have to create some clothes that will suit them and will not make them ridiculous.
evp	suit	verb	3	C1	to be right for someone or something	These plants are better suited to a warm climate.	In my opinion mixed schools are best suited to the current environment.
evp	suitability	noun	1	C1	the state of being suitable	Nobody could doubt her suitability for the job.	His suitability for the post mentioned in your advertisement is so obvious that it strikes me as weird why you hesitate.
evp	suitable	adjective	1	B1	acceptable or right for someone or something	The movie may not be suitable for very young children.	I think they are more suitable for boys than for girls.
evp	suitably	adverb	1	B2	in a way that is acceptable or right	I believe the committee was suitably impressed by his résumé.	Nevertheless, a lot of people think animals are not suitably looked after - they have to live in small space] and, moreover, the weather is often rather different from w]ha animals are used to.
evp	suitcase	noun	1	A2	a large rectangular container with a handle for carrying clothes and possessions while traveling	Have you packed/unpacked your suitcase yet?	Dear Juliana, I think I left my suitcase in your house.
evp	sum	noun	1	B1	an amount of money	Huge sums of money are spent on cleaning up the oil spill.	My poor aunt Yutta h]a died and she's left me a big sum of money.
evp	sum	verb	1	B2	to describe briefly the most important facts or characteristics of something	The oral report should sum up the main points of the written essay.	To sum up, young people are interested in many things but in my opinion, music, TV and clothes are issues about which they care more than others.
evp	summarize	verb	1	C1	to describe briefly the main facts or ideas of something	I'd like to briefly summarize the arguments for and against.	This report will attempt to summarize the findings, the trends and changes as well as analyze and explain the reasons for the changes between the periods and evaluate their impact on our lives.
evp	summary	noun	1	B2	a short, clear description that gives the main facts or ideas about something	He gave a brief summary of events.	Below is a summary of the most relevant points and recommendations.
evp	summer	noun	1	A1	the season of the year between spring and fall, when the weather is warmest	We usually go away in (the) summer.	I like going to the park in the summer.
evp	summit	noun	1	C1	the top of a mountain	The climbers hope to reach the summit before nightfall.	For instance, heliboarding - that is, when a helicopter carries you to the summit of a mountain and you slide down on your own - is gaining popularity.
evp	summit	noun	2	C2	an important meeting between the leaders of two or more governments	a two-day summit	In 1994 the UN held a summit on social development in Copenhagen.
evp	summon	verb	1	C2	to officially order someone to come to a place	He was summoned to a meeting.	As a result, my parents were summoned to see the headmaster for their daughter's misconduct and bad influence on other students.
evp	summon	verb	2	C2	to ask for someone or something that you need to help you in an emergency	They summoned an ambulance.	The villagers were also relieved that a "bomoh" or witch-doctor had been summoned to exorcise the pontianak.
evp	summon	verb	3	C2	to make a great effort to produce a quality to help you deal with a situation	summon up his/her/my/the courage	I summoned up my courage and asked her.
evp	sun	noun	1	A1	the large, bright star that shines in the sky during the day and provides light and heat for the Earth, or the light and heat that comes from the sun	The sun rises in the east and sets in the west.	When the sun is shining I like walking in Finsbury Park.
evp	sunbathe	verb	1	B1	to sit or lie in the sun	We spent the day sunbathing on the beach.	The weather is very good here, so I hope to go to the beach with my mother in the mornings to sunbathe.
evp	Sunday	noun	1	A1	the day of the week after Saturday and before Monday	They go walking every Sunday.	She plays tennis every Sunday evening.
evp	sunglasses	noun	1	A2	dark glasses that you wear to protect your eyes from the sun	Make sure you wear sunglasses outside.	I left my sunglasses in your house yesterday.
evp	sunlight	noun	1	B2	the light from the sun	The garden gets a lot of sunlight.	There are many sources of light in this world such as sunlight, moonlight, and candle light. [...] Nowadays, the electric light has become part of our lives, especially at night.
evp	sunny	adjective	1	A2	bright because of light from the sun	We're having the party outdoors, so I'm hoping it'll be sunny.	The weather is always sunny.
evp	sunrise	noun	1	B1	when the sun appears in the morning and the sky becomes light	I always get up before sunrise.	I have also decided to buy something new. I would like to have a poster, maybe a big black and white photo or a picture of a sunrise, what do you think about that?
evp	sunset	noun	1	B1	when the sun disappears in the evening and the sky becomes dark	They close the park at sunset.	We can go to Focone Beach, where the sunset is so beautiful.
evp	sunshine	noun	1	B1	the light and heat that come from the sun	The children were out playing in the sunshine.	You know I love sunshine. It's my energy source]
evp	superb	adjective	1	B2	excellent	We were served some superb seafood.	My homemade pizzas are superb, although I say it myself, and I would like to make one for the two of us.
evp	superficial	adjective	1	C2	If someone is superficial, they never think about things that are serious or important.	He's a very superficial person.	Are they the role models of an open-minded public or do they set wrong examples by encouraging superficial values based on appearance rather than personality, possessions rather than deeds, and wealth rather than virtues?
evp	superficial	adjective	2	C2	not complete and involving only the most obvious things	superficial knowledge	Many people believe that our school obliges us to gain "superficial" knowledge, since the latter is based on our immature age and on our inadequate experience.
evp	superficially	adverb	1	C2	in a way that is not deep or basic	Superficially, he is impressive, but his knowledge is really very slight.	Indeed too many people today travel too quickly and too superficially to learn anything from their experience.
evp	superfluous	adjective	1	C2	not needed, or more than is needed	superfluous details/information	It was a very good party and it might be superfluous to add that I got terribly drunk and didn't stagger home until seven in the morning.
evp	superior	adjective	1	C1	better than other things	This is clearly the work of a superior artist.	Our service is superior in terms of price, but unfortunately doesn't have some features other competitors' services have.
evp	superior	adjective	2	C1	higher in rank or position than other people	When your superior officer gives you an order, you do it.	It is my view that he is an excellent applicant who would be able to fulfil any demands of his superior officers.
evp	superior	adjective	3	C2	having the opinion that you are better than other people	I can’t stand Bill’s superior attitude.	The song is about a boy that tries to change his behavior and appearance so that he can feel superior to the others.
evp	superior	noun	1	C1	someone in a higher position or at a higher rank than you	We will need a letter of recommendation from one of your superiors.	Our superiors are always helping to maintain a healthy and comfortable work environment so we do our job more efficiently.
evp	superiority	noun	1	C2	when something is better than other things	the superiority of modern design	I believe a state which felt certain about the superiority of democratic values would not need to forbid any text, or any creative work for that matter.
evp	superiority	noun	2	C2	when you think that you are better than other people	She has an air of superiority.	She had an air of superiority and I found her conceited as she was not talking to anybody else except for the teacher.
evp	superlative	noun	1	A2	the form of an adjective or adverb which expresses that the thing or person being described has more of the particular quality than anything or anyone else of the same type	"Richest" is the superlative of "rich."	
evp	supermarket	noun	1	A1	a large store that sells many different foods and other products used in the home	I have to stop at the supermarket on the way home.	The supermarket is on Church Street near the post office.
evp	supernatural	adjective	1	B2	used to describe things that cannot be explained by our knowledge of science or nature	supernatural powers/forces	The book consists of six completely different 'ghost stories' which involve ghosts and supernatural phenomena, something that attracts young readers.
evp	supernatural	noun	1	B2	things that cannot be explained by our knowledge of science or nature	She's very interested in the supernatural.	
evp	supervise	verb	1	B2	to watch a person or activity to make certain that everything is done correctly, safely, etc.	The UN is supervising the distribution of aid by local agencies in the disaster area.	Our main activity will be to supervise the 8 to 12 year old] during those activities.
evp	supervision	noun	1	C1	when you supervise someone or something	He needs constant supervision.	The little one was built especially for you, so that you can leave your children under the supervision of two well-trained lifeguards.
evp	supervisor	noun	1	C1	a person whose job is to supervise someone or something	His supervisor told him to work faster.	I held the post of general supervisor in a campus in Oxford two years ago, and now I am working as a receptionist in a luxurious hotel.
evp	supper	noun	1	A2	a meal that you eat in the evening	What are we having for supper?	Well, I hope you'll come to my house to visit me and my family one day next week and have supper with us. What about Friday?
evp	supplement	noun	1	C2	an extra amount or part added to something	to take a vitamin
supplement	No miracle promises for overnight improvements, no food supplement and pills will bring the desired results.
evp	supplement	verb	1	C2	to add to something to make it larger or better	He supplements his income by working in a bar in the evenings.	He was moonlighting to supplement his income.
evp	supplementary	adjective	1	C2	added to something	supplementary materials	This has also been noted by the local authorities, which has resulted in a supplementary grant to the Language Department of our college.
evp	supplier	noun	1	B2	a person or company that provides something that people want or need	They are the world’s largest supplier of baby foods.	I have been employed by the Swedish fruit supplier "Northern Fruit Corp.'' for the last 6 years.
evp	supply	noun	1	B2	an amount of something that is available for use	the water supply	Please send me a list of the clothes needed and/or supplies.
evp	supply	verb	1	B2	to provide things that people want or need, often over a long period of time	Fran supplied the sandwiches for the party.	I would be able to supply you with a reference from my employer.
evp	support	verb	1	B1	to look after someone by paying for their food, clothes, etc.	Both parents work full time to support their family.	Sara has to work hard to support her family.
evp	support	verb	2	B1	to help someone, often when they are having problems	My family has always supported me in whatever I've wanted to do.	You can meet a lot of people who can support you in your research, and have a lot of friends too, and large schools have better facilities.
evp	support	verb	3	B1	to like a particular sports team, often going to see them play	I'm not a Mets fan - I've always supported the Yankees.	I liked it very much because this is the team that I support.
evp	support	verb	4	B2	to agree with an idea, group, or person	Do you support their views on the environment?	I support this idea because I believe that it is the only way to stop the traffic in cities.
evp	support	verb	5	B2	to give encouragement or financial help to someone or something because you want them to succeed	I think it's important to support local businesses by buying locally.	These films are more attractive for older viewers and support the local film business.
evp	support	verb	6	C1	to help to show that something is true	There's no evidence to support his story.	All the claims made on your leaflet weren't at all supported by evidence.
evp	support	verb	7	C2	to hold the weight of someone or something	Is this ladder strong enough to support me?	Next, electricity is transported by high voltage cables supported by towers up to a transformer station.
evp	support	noun	1	B1	help or encouragement given to someone when they are having problems	Carol gave me a lot of support when I lost my job.	Mother needs our support now and I'll go as soon as I can.
evp	support	noun	2	B2	agreement with an idea, group or person	Environmental groups have gained support among young people.	Dear Julian, I wanted to tell you that you have my moral support.
evp	support	noun	3	B2	the money someone needs in order to buy food and clothes and pay for somewhere to live	He is dependent on his father for support.	Re[cei]ving my pocket money last week, I was thinking what would happen if I lost my father's support.
evp	supporter	noun	1	B2	someone who supports a particular idea, group or person	Supporters of the bill expect it to pass.	According to supporters of Animal Rights, people wouldn't like being kept in zoos.
evp	supportive	adjective	1	C1	giving help or encouragement	a very supportive friend	The sports facilities were perfect, and the people working in the sport center were very friendly and supportive.
evp	supposedly	adverb	1	C1	used to show that you do not believe that something you have been told is true	Well, the tickets are supposedly in the mail.	"The Bride" sets out to kill the first of Bill's assassins, supposedly the most dangerous person in the world in terms of knives.
evp	suppress	verb	1	C2	to control feelings so that they do not show	I could barely suppress my anger.	He tried to suppress his fear.
evp	suppress	verb	2	C2	to prevent information from being known	to suppress evidence/news	I personally, would bring my child up as a person who is able to discuss and who does not suppress any criticism at all.
evp	suppress	verb	3	C2	to stop someone or something by using force	The rebellion was suppressed by government forces.	With the fresh sound of Clarisse's words of freedom and thought, happiness and nature, there arises in Montag the need of making a move, of rebelling against a flat and empty system that suppresses the individuality of men.
evp	supreme	adjective	1	C1	having the highest rank or the most importance or at the highest level	the Supreme Court	I would go back to the time when emperors reigned supreme in China and the West had not yet discovered it.
evp	sure	adjective	1	A2	certain	"What's wrong with him?" "I'm not sure."	I think it's in your room but I'm not sure.
evp	sure	adjective	2	A2	to take action so that you are certain that something happens, is true, etc.	Make sure that the door is locked.	So please make sure that you wear old clothes.
evp	sure	adjective	3	B1	without any doubt	I think he's Canadian but I don't know for sure.	For sure, you'll love Brazil.
evp	sure	adjective	4	B2	to be confident of your own abilities, qualities, etc.	She seems a bit more sure of herself since she got a job.	He is a tall, dark man who walks with confidence and is sure of himself because of his success i] the world of business.
evp	sure	adjective	5	B2	to be confident that something is true	He'll win this year, I'm sure of it.	I think that I would be a really useful person for your company. I'm sure of it.
evp	sure	adjective	6	C1	something that is certain to happen	Your promotion is a sure thing – you’re the best person for the job.	Although I never knew at which time it would be, the only sure thing I had in mind was the need to come back home, into your arms!
evp	sure	adjective	7	C1	If you are sure to do something, it is certain that you will do it.	He's sure to go back there again.	What she does not know is that her ex-husband has a very serious type of cancer and is sure to pass away in a few months (that is why he agrees to spend his summer with his son, knowing it would be the last).
evp	sure	adjective	8	C2	as expected	He said the book was on his desk, and sure enough, there it was.	And sure enough, these challenging problems come unsolicited most of the time.
evp	sure	adverb	1	A2	used to show agreement	"Can I take this pen?" "Sure."	Sure! I want to go with you.
evp	surely	adverb	1	B2	used to show that you believe something is very likely	Surely they'd have called us by now to say they're not coming.	Surely the trip with your parents will be very nice.
evp	surely	adverb	2	B2	used to express surprise that something has happened or is going to happen	Surely you don't expect me to believe that?	Surely it doesn't mean that they have learned the exciting news?
evp	surf	verb	1	A2	to look at information on the Internet by moving from one page to another using electronic links	Are you working or just surfing?	I like it very much because it is cool and I can do a lot of things with it, such as playing games and surfing the Internet.
evp	surf	verb	2	B1	to ride on a wave as it comes toward land, while standing or lying on a special board	I spent the summer learning how to surf.	I really enjoyed learning how to surf, it was terrific.
evp	surface	noun	1	B2	the top or outside part of something	The sun was reflected on the surface of the water.	When we came back to the surface we just looked like real miners.
evp	surface	noun	2	B2	what someone or something seems to be like when you do not know much about them	On the surface, he seemed very pleasant.	Miss Marple on the other hand is an old, nervous but gentle lady on the surface but inside that head of hers there is a brain as sharp as a knife, cutting through the mysteries she is involved in.
evp	surfing	noun	1	A2	the sport of riding on a wave on a special board	Let's go surfing this afternoon.	My hobbies are surfing and football.
evp	surge	verb	1	C1	to increase very quickly	Prices surged on the stock exchange.	Followed by a dip briefly afterwards, the value surged to close to 100 million tons in 2002.
evp	surge	noun	1	C1	a large increase in something	a surge in food prices	Also in technology, we have noticed a surge of the newest trends in even the smallest countries.
evp	surgeon	noun	1	C1	a doctor who is specially trained to perform medical operations	He is a leading surgeon at a London hospital.	I have been a surgeon for almost 20 years now, and I have worked in many different situations.
evp	surgery	noun	1	B2	when a doctor cuts your body open and repairs or removes something	heart surgery	My mother had to go through gall-stone surgery in Finland, where she was spending her holiday.
evp	surname	noun	1	C2	the name that you and other members of your family all have	Her first name is Sarah but I don't know her surname.	Her name is Teresa and her surname is unknown to us.
evp	surpass	verb	1	C2	to be or do better than someone or something else	The book's success surpassed everyone's expectations.	I visited "The Acropol" restaurant two weeks ago and to my astonishment it surpassed all my expectations.
evp	surplus	noun	1	C2	an amount of something that is more than you need	Every year we produce a huge surplus of wheat.	The most developed countries are the ones who didn't have a surplus of food and they had to find a way of producing it.
evp	surprise	noun	1	A2	an event that you did not expect to happen	Don't tell Anne we're having a party for her - I want it to be a surprise.	Last month I had a beautiful surprise for my birthday because my sister bought me a new bike.
evp	surprise	noun	2	B2	the feeling that you get when something happens that you did not expect	He looked at her in/with surprise.	He stared at me in surprise and didn't say anything.
evp	surprise	verb	1	B1	to make someone feel surprise	The news surprised everyone.	Then I saw a blue light that surprised me, I was scared. [A] strange creature was standing in front of me. [I]t was fat and ugly and then it tried to grab me...
evp	surprised	adjective	1	A2	feeling surprise because something has happened that you did not expect	You’d be surprised how quickly the time passes.	Hi Jo, I'm surprised you can't find the information about the art class.
evp	surprising	adjective	1	B1	not expected and making someone feel surprised	He gave a very surprising answer.	That was a little bit surprising because I'm pretty small and it's hard for me to find clothes that really fit me!
evp	surprisingly	adverb	1	B1	unexpectedly or in a way that is unusual	These chairs are surprisingly comfortable.	Surprisingly, I saw my grandmother walking in the rain!
evp	surrender	verb	1	C2	to stop fighting and admit that you have been beaten	Rebel troops are refusing to surrender.	Without the fire Ralph and Piggy have to surrender and as Piggy now has lost his vision he becomes weak and vulnerable and he must die - "The weak must go to the wall".
evp	surround	verb	1	B1	to be or go everywhere around something or someone	Snow-capped mountains surround the city.	The place I've enjoyed most is a small lake surrounded by very tall trees and a lot of bushes.
evp	surround	verb	2	C2	If a feeling or situation surrounds an event, it is closely connected with it.	Mystery still surrounds the exact circumstances of his death.	However, there was at this point nothing pleasant about the atmosphere surrounding the house.
evp	surrounding	adjective	1	B2	in a position around something	A lot of the children in this school come in from the surrounding
communities.	If all of you would help by using these facilities, our village could be very attractive to people from surrounding villages, which could be very good for the economy of our village.
evp	surroundings	noun	1	B2	the place where someone or something is and the things that are in it	beautiful/comfortable surroundings	The larger animals who are]n' threatened should live in their natural surroundings.
evp	survey	noun	1	B2	an examination of opinions, behavior, etc., made by asking people questions	A recent survey found/showed that 58% of people did not know where their heart is.	I have made a little survey on the subject of my report and I have found that most of the pupils of our school consider that the region and the area around the school should be filmed first.
evp	survey	verb	1	C1	to ask people questions in order to find out about their opinions or behavior	Seventy-five percent of those surveyed were in favor of the proposal.	Of the people surveyed, only 22% of the people responded that they never visit the park.
evp	survey	verb	2	C1	to look at or examine something carefully	I got out of the car to survey the damage.	This means that we need a small team to survey the area first, and I am very happy to lead this team.
evp	survival	noun	1	B2	when someone or something continues to live or exist, especially after a difficult or dangerous situation	The doctors told my wife I had a 50/50 chance of survival.	For many animals zoos are their only hope for survival: for example, the Chinese panda or white eagle.
evp	survive	verb	1	B2	to continue to live or exist, especially after almost dying or being destroyed	The baby was born with a heart problem and only survived for a few hours.	They struggle to survive.
evp	survivor	noun	1	B2	someone who continues to live after almost dying because of an accident, illness, etc.	Rescuers have given up hope of finding any more survivors.	We were the only survivors.
evp	suspect	verb	1	B2	to think that something is probably true, or is likely to happen	They suspected (that) he was lying.	I started to suspect that something wrong was happening there and I was about to leave that place when I heard some of my friends calling for me.
evp	suspect	verb	2	B2	to think that someone may have committed a crime or done something bad	The police suspect him of stealing the car.	But other people were suspected of having killed them.
evp	suspect	verb	3	C2	to not trust someone or something	She suspected his motives for offering to help.	
evp	suspect	noun	1	B2	someone who may have committed a crime	He's the prime suspect in the case.	He had never thought that Doctor Quimper might have been a suspect, as well.
evp	suspend	verb	1	B2	to not allow someone to go to work or school for a period of time because they have done something wrong	Two students were suspended for damaging school property.	The director decided to suspend the girl because she had been rude.
evp	suspend	verb	2	C1	to stop something happening or existing for a short time	The ferry service has been suspended for the day because of bad weather.	At first the electrical and gas power were cut off and the transport was suspended but now everything is working.
evp	suspense	noun	1	C2	the feeling of excitement or nervousness that you have when you are waiting for something to happen	There is a gradual build-up of suspense throughout the movie.	Exciting, fun and full of suspense, I'm sure I'm going to enjoy it, and remember it as a very good time.
evp	suspicion	noun	1	B2	a belief or idea that something may be true	Some people have suspicions that he may not be able to play at all.	I asked my mother what had happened and she confirmed my suspicions.
evp	suspicion	noun	2	C1	a feeling or belief that someone has committed a crime or done something wrong	His strange behavior raised suspicions among his co-workers.	Some of us were told to go there and to kill those who were under suspicion.
evp	suspicious	adjective	1	B2	making you feel that something illegal is happening or that something is wrong	suspicious behavior/circumstances	Talking to Calloway made Martins very suspicious, because he had always thought of him as a nice and decent person.
evp	suspicious	adjective	2	B2	not trusting someone or something	Many of them remain suspicious of journalists.	Paul was suspicious and asked her if she was all right. [Jane] replied with a yes, but she looked nervous.
evp	suspiciously	adverb	1	B2	in a way that shows that you do not trust someone or something	He looked at her suspiciously.	The old man, who was going upstairs, stopped and looked at us very suspiciously.
evp	sustain	verb	1	C2	to cause or allow something to continue for a period of time	The team may not be able to sustain this level of performance.	And they have to work hard to reach and sustain this high level.
evp	sustain	verb	2	C2	to support someone or something so that they can live or exist	The money he received was hardly enough to sustain a wife and five children.	The one concern I have is the ability of such a job to financially sustain an entire family.
evp	sustainability	noun	1	C2	the degree to which something is sustainable	We have to think about the sustainability of these energy sources.	State and Society should be held responsible for ensuring the environment's sustainability and for preventing further damage.
evp	sustainable	adjective	1	C1	able to continue over a period of time	sustainable development/growth	This is as you might know the aim of the concept of sustainable development.
evp	sustainable	adjective	2	C1	causing little or no damage to the environment and therefore able to continue for a long time	sustainable energy	Being an engineer in the field of renewable and sustainable energy which includes solar energy, hydropower and wind energy, I can say I am quite knowledgeable about the specific problem of environmental issues and about how to mitigate the serious impacts.
evp	swallow	verb	1	B2	to move your throat in order to make food or drink go down	My throat is so sore that it really hurts when I swallow.	I swallowed my eggs and bread and checked my bag for the fourth and last time.
evp	swallow	verb	2	C2	to accept something unpleasant	They found the final decision hard to swallow.	Occasionally he would beat her, but she just swallowed it with a sense of helplessness.
evp	swallow	verb	3	C2	to not show your feelings and to not allow them to affect the way that you behave	I swallowed my pride and asked them for help.	She has had to put up with all the psychological harm that her husband has put her through and at the same time, she has had to keep on struggling for her children, never giving in; holding back her tears, swallowing her pride just for the benefit of her daughters.
evp	swan	noun	1	B2	a large, white bird with a long neck which lives on lakes and rivers	We saw two swans gliding down the river with their signets.	The ugly duckling became a beautiful swan.
evp	swap	verb	1	C1	to give something to someone and get something from them in return	Would you mind if Dave swapped places with you for a bit?	People come here to swap opinions and news.
evp	swear	verb	1	B2	to use language which people think is rude or offensive	He
started swearing for no good reason.	When I heard the ringing of the phone I became so furious that as soon as I answered the phone, I started swearing at it.
evp	swear	verb	2	B2	to make a serious promise	swear allegiance/to tell the truth	That day I swore to myself that I would never trust anybody again.
evp	swear	verb	3	C2	used to say that you are sure something is true	I could have sworn that she said she lived in Canterbury.	I would have sworn that they were our neighbor's dogs.
evp	sweat	noun	1	B2	the salty colorless liquid that comes through your skin when you are hot, nervous or ill	The sweat was pouring off me ten minutes into the game.	Pearls of sweat appeared on her forehead.
evp	sweat	verb	1	B2	to produce liquid through your skin because you are hot, nervous or ill	The room was hot and I was starting to sweat.	I began to sweat and my fear changed to panic when we opened a door.
evp	sweater	noun	1	A2	a warm piece of clothing which covers the top of your body and is pulled on over your head or buttons down the front	Put a sweater on if you're cold.	I got lots of presents, for example I got a nice sweater.
evp	sweatshirt	noun	1	B1	a piece of clothing made of soft cotton which covers the top of your body and is pulled on over your head or zips up the front	a hooded sweatshirt	Well, I'm always wearing tight-fitting, blue jeans, I really love them as they're always in fashion, and if it's cold, a v-neck, long sleeved sweatshirt.
evp	sweep	verb	1	B2	to clean the floor using a brush	I swept the floor.	I found your watch yesterday, while I was sweeping the floor.
evp	sweep	verb	2	B2	to be pushed or carried along in a forceful way	Many trees were swept away in the flood.	Suddenly, we were swept away by an avalanche.
evp	sweep	verb	3	C2	to move quickly, especially in a way that shows you think you are important	She swept past me in the corridor.	Arriving at the central station, we wee met by a roar of "We are red! We are white! We are Danish dynamite!" and let ourselves be swept along with the stream of people from all over the suburbs heading toward the city hall square of our Capital.
evp	sweet	adjective	1	A1	with a taste like sugar	The pineapple was sweet and juicy.	I like rice and sweet dishes.
evp	sweet	adjective	2	A2	attractive, often because of being small	Look at that kitten - isn't she sweet?	It's a toy bear and it's so sweet.
evp	sweet	adjective	3	B1	kind and friendly	It was really sweet of you to help.	Thank you ever so much for the present you've sent me! It was really sweet of you.
evp	sweets	noun	1	A2	sweet food such as cake or candy	Rosie tries to avoid sweets.	Yes, if you can bring some sweets and some snacks, it would be great!
evp	swift	adjective	1	C2	happening or moving quickly	a swift response	Individual performances were amazing. Jimmy Page's heavy blues riffs, his swift solos and his talent for composing songs of an incredible richness clearly showed he was still one of the greatest figures of rock 'n' roll.
evp	swiftly	adverb	1	C2	quickly	The authorities have moved swiftly to quell the violence.	Time seems to flow more swiftly when we need it most, and those two days went by without us having finished the paper.
evp	swim	verb	1	A1	to move through water by moving your body	We spent the day on the beach but it was too cold to swim.	I like this place because I like to swim.
evp	swim	noun	1	A2	a time when you swim	Do you want to go for swim this afternoon?	I would like to play volleyball on the beach and have a swim in the sea.
evp	swimmer	noun	1	B1	someone who is swimming or who can swim	Oliver is a very strong swimmer.	He is the best swimmer in the club, much faster than I could ever be.
evp	swimming	noun	1	A2	the activity of moving through water by moving your body	Let's go swimming today.	I want to go swimming and cycling.
evp	swimming pool	noun	1	A1	an area of water that has been made for people to swim in	an indoor/outdoor swimming pool	I like it when we go to the swimming pool.
evp	swimsuit	noun	1	A2	a piece of clothing you wear to go swimming	I bought a new swimsuit.	It's hot here, but I have my swimsuit, so, this afternoon I'll go to the beach or to the swimming pool.
evp	swing	verb	1	B2	to move smoothly backward and forward, or to make something do this	He walked briskly along the path swinging his rolled-up umbrella.	When Mary entered the bar, the room was empty and there was a rope swinging from a beam.
evp	swing	noun	1	B2	a chair hanging on two ropes that children sit on and swing backward and forward	Jake wanted me to push him on the swing.	Do you remember the swing by the big tree in my garden?
evp	switch	verb	1	B2	to change from one thing to another	She started studying English at college, but switched to Business Studies in her second year.	For many years I had created my system under MS-DOS (Disk Operating System), but two years ago I switched and since them I've worked with Unix.
evp	switch	verb	2	B1	to turn off a light, television, etc. by using a switch	Remember to switch the computer off.	They couldn't call me because my phone was switched off.
evp	switch	verb	3	B1	to turn on a light, television, etc. by using a switch	Could you switch the light on?	We will switch on a light and will sing "Happy Birthday" and the party will begin.
evp	switch	noun	1	B1	a small object that you push up or down with your finger to turn something electrical on or off	a light switch	Then I turned off the switch until the end of the day.
evp	swollen	adjective	1	B2	larger than usual	a bruised, swollen face	I cried almost all day and wanted to go home as quickly as possible but suddenly, someone took a photograph of me with swollen eyes.
evp	sword	noun	1	B2	a weapon with a long sharp metal blade and a handle, used especially in the past	He rode toward me, waving his sword in the air.	I took the ancient sword in my hands and felt the power flow through my veins.
evp	sword	noun	2	C2	something that has both a positive and a negative effect	Being that intelligent is a double-edged sword - he finds it difficult to talk to ordinary people.	As you might see, technological advancements are a double-edged sword.
evp	syllabus	noun	1	C2	a list of the subjects that are included in a course of study	Freud isn't on the syllabus.	Physical Education is now generally considered an important part of a person's progress towards a mature, well-rounded adult human being, a fact that is reflected by the inclusion of Physical Education as an obligatory subject in national school syllabi.
evp	symbol	noun	1	B2	a sign, shape or object that is used to represent something else	Five interlocking rings is the symbol of the Olympic games.	This was the first time it arrived and it was a point of hope for all the friends of nature and particularly for the World Wildlife Fund, who have chosen the panda as their symbol.
evp	symbolic	adjective	1	C2	representing something else	symbolic meanings	The reason why people value certain items so greatly is that these items have a great symbolic value to their owners.
evp	sympathetic	adjective	1	B2	showing that you understand and care about someone's problems	He suffers from back trouble too, so he was very sympathetic about my problem.	Nobody wants to talk to him apart from Alice, she feels sympathetic and understands him.
evp	sympathetic	adjective	2	C2	agreeing with or supporting someone's ideas or actions	He was sympathetic to their views.	I hope you'll be sympathetic to our demands and take some action.
evp	sympathize	verb	1	C2	to understand and care about someone's problems	It's a really bad situation - I do sympathize with her.	In our lives, it is crucial that we develop relationships between other individuals, in order to have somebody to sympathize with us in bad times and stand on our side to help us.
evp	sympathize	verb	2	C2	to agree with or support someone's ideas or actions	I sympathize with the general aims of the organization.	As a result, they tend to sympathize with more radical groups and parties in order to support a change in the current system.
evp	sympathy	noun	1	B2	when you show that you understand and care about someone's problems	The president has sent a message of sympathy to the relatives of the dead soldiers.	No matter how sensitive or impassive one's attitude towards animals is, after having thought it over thoroughly most of us feel deep sorrow and sympathy for the poor creatures kept in cages.
evp	sympathy	noun	2	C2	agreement with or support for someone's ideas or actions	Scott was in sympathy with this view.	
evp	symptom	noun	1	B2	a physical feeling or problem which shows that you have a particular illness	He's complaining of all the usual flu symptoms - fever, headache, muscle ache.	We asked her what had happened and she told us she had some weird symptoms so she went for an examination to see what was wrong. She finally discovered that... she was pregnant!
evp	symptom	noun	2	C2	a problem that is caused by and shows a more serious problem	This endless debate is a symptom of our lack of confidence.	The problem with tackling homelessness is that it is just a symptom.
evp	synonym	noun	1	C2	a word or phrase that means the same as another word or phrase	'Quick' and 'fast' are synonyms.	Dynamic, Go-Getters, Ambitious, Stalwarts - These are just some of the synonyms that the young people of today's generation are known by.
evp	synonymous	adjective	1	C2	If one thing is synonymous with another, they are very closely connected with each other in people's minds.	It is a country where wealth is synonymous with corruption.	Working is synonymous with integration in the society.
evp	synonymous	adjective	2	C2	If one word is synonymous with another, they have the same meaning.	Would you say that 'idle' is completely synonymous with 'lazy'?	
evp	system	noun	1	B1	a set of connected pieces of equipment that operate together	They've had an alarm system installed at their home.	They had a new sound system which is very loud.
evp	system	noun	2	B2	a way or method of doing things	the legal/education system	You will have the possibility to get to know our political system.
evp	system	noun	3	C2	parts of the body that work together in order to make something happen	the body's digestive/immune system	Now stem cells are widely used in cosmetic surgery - this extremely expensive treatment is offered to well-off people who want to look younger and strengthen their immune system.
evp	systematic	adjective	1	C2	done using a fixed and organized plan	the systematic collection and analysis of information	On account of systematic and thorough rationalization in almost every sector of Western economics, workers are not needed as they were in the fifties or sixties.
evp	systematically	adverb	1	C2	in a systematic way	We went through all the documents systematically.	Unemployment is a major problem today but it can be dealt with systematically and it is worth investing in a solution to this problem because of the social implications.
evp	table	noun	1	A1	a piece of furniture with four legs, used for eating off, putting things on, etc.	the kitchen table	There is a beautiful table in the garden.
evp	table	noun	2	B1	an arrangement of facts and numbers in rows or blocks, especially in printed material	The table below shows the results of the experiment.	
evp	table	noun	3	B1	to put plates, knives, forks, etc. on the table to prepare for a meal	Could you set the table for me, please?	We set the table and waited for Jun. He was supposed to come around six.
evp	tablecloth	noun	1	B2	a piece of cloth or paper used to cover a table, especially during a meal	She set the table and used a pretty pink tablecloth and napkins.	Dear Tom, I received your letter and I'm going to try to answer your questions: for the wedding present, I don't think you are compelled to give them anything, but if you want to, I suggest you to offer a tablecloth and napkins, it is very useful and they will be very pleased.
evp	tablet	noun	1	B1	a small, round object containing medicine that you swallow	sleeping tablets	I talked to her many times about the danger of taking tablets for pain.
evp	table tennis	noun	1	A2	a game in which two or four people hit a small ball over a low net on a large table	Shall we play table tennis?	I also play basketball, badminton and table tennis.
evp	tabloid	noun	1	B2	a type of popular newspaper with small pages which has many pictures and short simple reports	She writes for one of the tabloids.	A famous person has no private life. [T]here is always gossip i] magazines and tabloids about the latest hot love stories among the stars.
evp	tabloid	adjective	1	B2	relating to tabloids	the tabloid press	
evp	tackle	verb	1	B2	to try to deal with a problem or to speak to someone about something bad that they have done	new ways to tackle crime	I've found some information because all these problems must be tackled now.
evp	tackle	verb	2	B2	to try to get the ball from someone in a game such as football	He successfully tackled his opponent.	Always keep on learning different ways of passing, shooting and tackling, as there is no end to learning a new way.
evp	tact	noun	1	C2	the ability to talk to people about difficult subjects without upsetting them	This situation needs to be handled with great tact.	One can't help admiring Lucy's tact, when during their ramble with the Emersons, Miss Lavish and the clergymen, she leaves Charlotte and Miss Lavish on their own, so that they could gossip.
evp	tactful	adjective	1	C2	careful not to say or do anything that could upset someone	She asked a few tactful questions.	His person emanates caring and sympathy. He is tactful and sensible.
evp	tactic	noun	1	C1	a way of doing something that you plan in order to achieve what you want	These bomb attacks represent a change of tactics by the terrorists.	One can learn about the way of life of the wise ancient Greeks and study the political system, their society or even tactics used in battle.
evp	tactless	adjective	1	C2	not careful about saying or doing something that could upset someone	That was a really tactless thing to say.	"You... you.. you horrible and tactless person, you BASTARD," she shrieked and dashed out of the room into the kitchen slamming the door behind her.
evp	tail	noun	1	B2	the long, narrow part that sticks out at the back of an animal's body	The dog wagged its tail excitedly.	She is very beautiful with her long b]ush tail and soft paws.
evp	tail	noun	2	C2	the last part of something	the tail end of the eighties	Both Olivia's and the narrator's stories show India at crucial times of its history: at the tail end of the "Raj" and at the initial stage of a modern and independent country.
evp	tailpipe	noun	1	C1	the pipe at the back of a vehicle that waste gas from the engine flows through	Black smoke was coming out of the tailpipe of the old car.	
evp	take	verb	1	A1	to get and carry something with you when you go somewhere	I take my cellphone with me everywhere I go.	The park is very close to my house. [...] If I have time, I can take a book or a newspaper there]
evp	take	verb	2	A1	to go somewhere with someone, often paying for them or being responsible for them	I took the kids to the park.	She takes her son to school.
evp	take	verb	3	A1	to photograph someone or something	Did you take any pictures of the sunset?	Sometimes I take photos of them and I feed these birds.
evp	take	verb	4	A2	to travel somewhere by using a bus, train, car, etc.	Are you taking the train to Chicago?	Then, we can take a cab.
evp	take	verb	5	A2	If something takes a particular amount of time, you need that amount of time in order to be able to do it.	It took me three days to finish the job.	It's going to take 2 hours.
evp	take	verb	6	A2	used when saying goodbye to someone	See you soon, Bob - take care!	Take care and see you soon.
evp	take	verb	7	A2	used to tell someone which road to go along in order to get somewhere	Take the third turn on the left.	You can go to the city center. [Y]ou take St Mark's avenue and then you arrive.
evp	take	verb	8	A2	to swallow or use medicine	Take two tablets, three times a day.	It is important for me because I don't have any other watch and I need to check the time to take my medicine.
evp	take	verb	9	A2	to do an exam	I have to take some exams in June.	It's important because I'm taking an exam next week.
evp	take	verb	10	B1	to get hold of something and move it	He reached across and took the glass from her.	So, she took me by the arm and brought me to the dance floor where everybody was waiting for that last man.
evp	take	verb	11	B1	to remove something without permission	Someone's taken my coat!	He had taken our suitcases by mistake.
evp	take	verb	12	B1	to accept or have something	Are you going to take the job?	If you take this job, you have to be prepared not to have enough spare time for things that you like to do, since you would be at work all day.
evp	take	verb	13	B1	used with some nouns to say that someone performs an action	I need to take a shower.	I took a shower and ate my breakfast.
evp	take	verb	14	B1	to look after someone or something	I'll take good care of her.	My dad had to go to Canada for a meeting, so he asked me to take care of her.
evp	take	verb	15	B1	to write something	Did you take their number?	My friend Jennifer is going to take notes for me and she will tell me about the work I missed on Monday.
evp	take	verb	16	B1	to study a subject in order to do an exam	He's taking math, chemistry and physics.	My old English class wasn't good enough because the lessons were just i] the evening and also we didn't have enough conversation. So I decided to take a full-time course.
evp	take	verb	17	B1	to be involved in an activity with other people	She doesn't usually take part in any of the class activities.	The practice was for a big competition at our club, in which teams from Munich and Cologne will take part.
evp	take	verb	18	B1	to happen	The concert takes place next Thursday.	A dance night will take place in the club soon.
evp	take	verb	19	B1	to stop working for a short period	I think we'll take a break there.	When I took a little break to drink something, I met one of my best friends.
evp	take	verb	20	B1	to use something good in a situation to help you	I thought I'd take advantage of the sports facilities while I'm here.	If you take advantage of this opportunity, in the future you'll thank me.
evp	take	verb	21	B1	to relax and not use too much energy	After his heart attack, he had to take things easy for a while.	Take it easy and see you soon.
evp	take	verb	22	B1	to wear a particular size of clothes	What size shoe do you take?	
evp	take	verb	23	B2	to usually have milk/sugar, etc. in your tea or coffee	I've forgotten - do you take milk in your tea?	
evp	take	verb	24	B2	to remove one number from another number	If you take 4 from 12 you get 8.	
evp	take	verb	25	B2	to need or be followed by another word or structure in order to be grammatically correct	This sense of the verb "give" takes two objects.	
evp	take	verb	26	B2	to not be able to deal with an unpleasant situation	We argue all the time and I can't take it any more.	In the end, when Laura couldn't take it anymore, she decided to end her suffering by taking her life.
evp	take	verb	27	B2	to consider a person, subject or situation to be important or dangerous and worth your attention or respect	We take any threats to national security very seriously.	Don't take everything so seriously otherwise you'll probably end up as an old maid and I don't think you want that.
evp	take	verb	28	B2	to have a particular, good feeling about something or someone	He takes great pleasure in cooking.	The amazing thing about him is that he takes pride in his appearance and the image others have of him.
evp	take	verb	29	B2	to consider something when judging a situation	A good architect takes account of the building's surroundings.	I hope you will take account of our request.
evp	take	verb	30	B2	to consider something when judging a situation	I think you have to take into account the fact that he's a good deal younger than the rest of us.	Taking into account all these arguments, I also think, like many people, that keeping animals in zoos is cruel and unnecessary.
evp	take	verb	31	B2	to treat someone or something badly in order to get what you want	I think she takes advantage of his good nature.	There will always be the threat of those men who take advantage of animals' inferior status.
evp	take	verb	32	B2	If something takes your breath away, you feel surprise and admiration because it is so beautiful or exciting.	The view from the window took my breath away.	The landscape just takes your breath away sometimes.
evp	take	verb	33	B2	to take control of or make yourself responsible for something	I was happy to let her take charge of the vacation arrangements.	I am 21 years old which means that I can take charge of school children.
evp	take	verb	34	B2	to start to rule or govern an area	The dictator took control of the country in 1933.	In the first part of the story animals take control of a farm in England.
evp	take	verb	35	B2	to fill your lungs with air	Take a deep breath and relax.	But if you took a deep breath after reading the question, don't worry.
evp	take	verb	36	B2	to believe what someone says without any proof	Take my word for it - this curry is very hot!	Naturally we had to take his word for it.
evp	take	verb	37	B2	to not show that you are grateful for someone or something, and forget that you are lucky to have them	Most of us take our freedom for granted.	So don't take the telephone for granted, but keep in mind that our modern way of life is mainly due to its invention.
evp	take	verb	38	B2	to believe that something is true without checking or thinking about it	I took it for granted that we'd be invited to the wedding.	I have taken it for granted that you will arrive for dinner.
evp	take	verb	39	B2	to use an occasion to do or say something	I'd like to take this opportunity to thank all of you.	Most of the comments are not right at all. I would like to take this opportunity to correct them.
evp	take	verb	40	B2	to do something instead of someone else	If I can't make it to the theater that night you can take my place.	First of all, it had been written that Danny Brook and Tina Truelove were starring, but Danny wasn't there and somebody else took his place.
evp	take	verb	41	C1	to start to produce results or changes	They had to wait ten minutes for the anesthetic to take effect.	Some factories tried to organize the transportation for the employees, but it took effect in small towns only, where people live within shorter distances.
evp	take	verb	42	C1	to do something without hurrying	Take your time choosing - there's no hurry.	If you're going to land at the Lugano-Agno airport, as you told me in your last letter, the first thing I recommend to you is to be patient and take your time.
evp	take	verb	43	C1	accept that what I say is true, because I know or have experienced it	You could be doing a much less interesting job, take it from me.	As you probably already know, Greeks love sports so, take it from me, you won't have difficulty in finding sports facilities of any kind, wherever you decide to go.
evp	take	verb	44	C1	to be the first person to do something that solves a problem or improves a situation	Jackson had taken the initiative and prepared a report.	I took the initiative to contact Sue Wilton, who is the manager of the restaurant "El Plato".
evp	take	verb	45	C1	to disagree with what someone says or writes	Isn’t the need to hire more staff
what’s really at issue here.	On behalf of the staff who worked for this event, I would like to take issue with the report's inaccuracies and unfair remarks.
evp	take	verb	46	C1	to do something that will have an effect on someone else, without asking their permission	I took the liberty of booking theater seats for us.	I have taken the liberty of listing some of my ideas and suggestions and hope they will be of interest to you.
evp	take	verb	47	C1	to think that someone is criticizing you or to feel that a failure or bad situation is your fault	You shouldn't take everything so personally.	She tends to take things too personally, and sometimes she overreacts.
evp	take	verb	48	C1	to be responsible for dealing with something	I did the cooking while Guy took care of cleaning up.	As for special requirements, one man and one woman are vegetarians and the woman is allergic to cats. I hope you are able to take care of that.
evp	take	verb	49	C2	to understand something in a particular way	Whatever I say she'll take it the wrong way.	
evp	take	verb	50	C2	to deal with something as it happens, without planning for it	With an illness like this you just have to take every day as it comes.	We should, for once, put our jea]lous aside, start to appreciate what we have and take life as it comes.
evp	take	verb	51	C2	to measure something	Have you taken her temperature?	The importance of absolute truth in keeping the laboratory records, in taking the temperature of the test animals, was "engraved" in our young minds.
evp	take	verb	52	C2	used when you think that what you say is probably true	I take it you're not coming with us?	
evp	take	verb	53	C2	If something takes a particular quality, you need that quality in order to be able to do it.	Parachuting takes a lot of nerve.	It takes courage to give up a certain sense of security and face the unknown.
evp	take	verb	54	C2	If you take criticism or advice to heart, you think about it seriously.	Don't take it to heart - he was only joking about your hair.	I hope you will take my advice to heart.
evp	take	verb	55	C2	to not like something that someone says or does	He doesn't take kindly to criticism.	His wife didn't take kindly to his lateness and immediately snarled at him as though she was a tigress snapping her claws in a cat-fight.
evp	take	verb	56	C2	to do something illegal in order to punish someone because you know that the law will not punish that person	The police did nothing about the thefts, so they took the law into their own hands.	Therefore, locals are scared to death, leading to their taking the law into their own hands.
evp	take	verb	57	C2	to do something important or difficult, especially after thinking about it for a long time	We're finally going to take the plunge and buy a house.	Being unable to stand this mystery, I decided to take the plunge and follow him.
evp	take	verb	58	C2	to have a bad effect on someone or something, especially over a long period of time	The stress was starting to take its toll on him.	The famine has obviously taken its toll on him.
evp	take	verb	59	C2	to become better or worse suddenly	The weather took a turn for the better.	Despite all the environmental problems it is up to us to prevent things from taking a turn for the worse.
evp	take	verb	60	C2	to disapprove of something	Most bosses take a dim view of long lunches.	It's nearly impossible to see him strolling or strutting, in fact he is always striding; he is also one of the few men who still speaks with an accent, despite the fact that he perfectly knows that someone could take a dim view of him for this.
evp	take	verb	61	C2	to start to develop and become more clear or certain	The project is slowly beginning to take shape.	It is high time that their dreams took shape!
evp	take	verb	62	C2	to think carefully about a situation before making a decision	We need to pause and take stock of what still needs to be done.	
evp	take	verb	63	B2	to be similar to an older member of your family	Peter's very tall - he takes after his father.	They are nice kids and they take after my mother.
evp	take	verb	64	B2	to walk through a building or visit a place with someone, showing them the most interesting or important parts	A guide took us around the museum.	Can you imagine how pleased we were with your kind offer to take us around Kyoto.
evp	take	verb	65	B1	to remove one number from another number	Four take away two is two.	
evp	take	verb	66	B2	to remove something	A waiter came to take our plates away.	The animals were taken away from their own habitat and will spend the rest of their lives in a completely different situation.
evp	take	verb	67	B1	to return something to the place you borrowed or bought it from	Is it too small? Take it back and get a refund.	
evp	take	verb	68	B2	to remove something that is on a wall or something that is temporary	I've taken the pictures down.	He was taking down a picture of Laura.
evp	take	verb	69	C2	to understand completely the meaning or importance of something	I had to read the letter twice before I could take it all in.	Daddy was dead. They couldn't take it in.
evp	take	verb	70	B2	to be deceived by someone	He told her a pack of lies and she was completely taken in by him.	He may be surprised, but he'll never be taken in.
evp	take	verb	71	A2	to remove something, especially clothes	He took off his clothes and got into the bathtub.	And in the winter I prefer wearing a coat rather than a sweater, because the coat is easy to put on and easy to take off.
evp	take	verb	72	B2	to spend time away from your work	He took off two weeks in September.	I will try to take some time off so I can come with you, but I don't know if that is possible.
evp	take	verb	73	A2	If an aircraft takes off, it leaves the ground and begins to fly.	The plane took off at 8.30 a.m.	The plane took off at 12.
evp	take	verb	74	B2	to suddenly start to be successful or popular	Her singing career had just begun to take off.	The waitresses are quite rude. If you hire new ones, your sales will probably take off.
evp	take	verb	75	B2	to employ someone	She was taken on as a laboratory assistant.	To find a job will be no problem, because I work in a coffee shop and I am sure that they will take you on.
evp	take	verb	76	C1	to accept a particular job or responsibility	Make sure you don't take on too much work.	So I would take on the job if you changed the conditions.
evp	take	verb	77	B1	to go somewhere with someone and pay for them	My dad's taking the whole family out to the theater.	He was going to take me out to have lunch.
evp	take	verb	78	B1	to remove something from somewhere	He reached into his bag and took out a book.	He took out a knife and when he was about to kill me, I woke up.
evp	take	verb	79	B1	to buy food in a restaurant or store and eat it somewhere else	Will that be to eat in or take out?	
evp	take	verb	80	B2	to get money from a bank	I took out $50 for the weekend.	
evp	take	verb	81	B2	to start doing a job or being responsible for something that another person did or had responsibility for before	He took over from the previous principal in February.	The pigs take over all the managerial work, surpervise the other animals and finally alone make all the decisions.
evp	take	verb	82	C2	to become more successful or powerful than something or someone else that is involved in the same type of activity	Italy has taken over from Spain as Europe's favorite vacation destination.	TV has taken over as the dominant activity for leisure time, providing something for everyone.
evp	take	verb	83	C1	to start to like someone or something	For some reason I just didn't take to her.	Most children take to her almost immediately.
evp	take	verb	84	B2	to fill an amount of space or time	This desk takes up too much room.	It doesn't take up much space.
evp	take	verb	85	B1	to start doing a particular activity or job	He's taken up cycling in his spare time	I played badminton a couple of years ago and I would very much like to take it up again.
evp	take	noun	1	C2	your opinion about a situation	What's your take on the plan to close the library?	
evp	takeout	noun	1	B1	a meal that you buy in a restaurant or store but eat at home, or a restaurant or store that sells this type of meal	Chinese takeout	
evp	takeover	noun	1	C1	when a company gets control of another company	The company was involved in a takeover last year.	Everything has to be cheap and fast and there are mergers and takeovers all the time.
evp	tale	noun	1	B2	a story, especially one which is not true or is difficult to believe	He told the most amazing tales about his life in India.	She knows everything about Prague's history and many local stories and tales.
evp	talent	noun	1	B1	a natural ability to do something	Her talent for music showed at an early age.	Some people have skills and talent and some do not.
evp	talented	adjective	1	B1	with talent	a talented football player/pianist	He is so talented, so smart and very polite to all.
evp	talk	verb	1	A1	to say things to someone	We were just talking about Simon's new girlfriend.	I like to talk with my friends and my teacher.
evp	talk	verb	2	B2	to discuss something with someone, often to try to find a solution to a disagreement	The two sides have agreed to talk.	I decided to talk to him and try to solve the problem.
evp	talk	verb	3	B2	to give a lecture on a subject	The next speaker will be talking about endangered insects.	We think that the best topic you could talk about is your latest book, you could try to develop the subject, explain to the members how to become a writer, from where and how do you get your ideas, and the subjects of your book.
evp	talk	verb	4	C1	to discuss a particular subject	I don't like to talk business over lunch.	[Do] not talk politics or sports with him (!)
evp	talk	verb	5	C1	to understand a subject because of your experience	He doesn't know what he's talking about - he's never even been to Africa.	I believe that you don't really know what you're talking about.
evp	talk	verb	6	C2	to think about or make plans to do something in the future	They're talking about building a new fire station downtown.	7 years ago they were talking about building another apartment complex in the park.
evp	talk	verb	7	B2	to persuade someone to do something	She's managed to talk me into doing a ten-mile run on the weekend.	However, it was last summer when I was in Sicily and met Sven, who was a dive teacher, and it was he who talked me into this hobby.
evp	talk	verb	8	C2	to persuade someone not to do something	It's a ridiculous idea - I've tried to talk him out of it.	Hard as he tried, he seemed to be unable to talk his partner out of his silly conduct.
evp	talk	verb	9	B2	to discuss something with someone, often to find out their opinion or to get advice before making a decision	I'm going to talk it over with Marty before I do anything about it.	She is important to me because I can go to her when I have a problem and we will talk it over until we find a solution.
evp	talk	verb	10	C2	to discuss all the details of something, often before making a decision	I'm thinking of taking out a loan, but I need to talk it through with my accountant.	She is always there for me both as mother and as friend. Whenever I have a problem, whatever it may be, we sit down and talk it through and she tells me her point of view.
evp	talk	noun	1	B1	a conversation between two people, often about a particular subject	He's going to have a talk with his parents and see what they think.	We had a talk and he told me about Bradley and what the band was like.
evp	talk	noun	2	B2	a speech made to a group of people about a particular subject	He gave a talk about/on his visit to Bolivia.	I would rather you gave a talk about your latest book because they are very interested, but if you do not think so, you are able to choose what you want.
evp	talk	noun	3	C2	unofficial information that people are talking about	I’ve heard talk of layoffs.	It is also true that there has been a lot of talk about euthanasia.
evp	talkative	adjective	1	C1	A talkative person talks a lot.	My son is very talkative.	I would advise you to film the classrooms, maybe a conversation class, during which students will be more talkative and less shy.
evp	talks	noun	1	C2	formal meetings, especially between political leaders, to discuss a problem and to try to reach an agreement	peace talks	It should be dealt with through peace talks and more active communications between the countries.
evp	talk show	noun	1	B1	a television or radio program where people are asked questions about themselves	I saw her on a talk show last week.	Have you ever seen the talk show called "For and Against"?
evp	tall	adjective	1	A1	having a greater than average height	a tall girl	He is a tall man.
evp	tall	adjective	2	A2	used for talking or asking about the height of someone or something	He's six feet tall.	I am selling the dress because now I'm taller than two years ago and so it is small.
evp	tan	noun	1	B2	when your skin is brown from being in the sun	She had a lovely tan.	If you want to get a tan, this is the place to be.
evp	tangible	adjective	1	C2	Something which is tangible is real and can be seen, touched, or measured.	tangible benefits/evidence	This was a tangible physical pleasure that I have felt ever since, whether I sing along with accompaniment, or in a chorus.
evp	tank	noun	1	C1	a large, strong military vehicle with a gun on it which moves on metal belts turned by wheels	Tanks rolled into the city at dawn.	They were inside the university and they were transmitting o] a radio frequency when the tanks invaded from the main entrance.
evp	tank	noun	2	C2	a large container for storing liquid or gas	a water tank	The heater is automatic and there is plenty of fuel oil in the tank.
evp	tap	noun	1	B2	a gentle knock or touch, or the noise made by knocking something gently	I felt a tap on my shoulder.	While she was teaching, I fell asleep and two minutes later I felt a tap o] my back.
evp	tap	verb	1	B2	to knock or touch something gently	I tapped on the window to try to get her attention.	She lit up the whole stage when she danced, as she tapped her feet in rhythm with the music.
evp	target	noun	1	B2	something or someone that you attack, shoot at, try to hit, etc.	a military target	Paul Rebere, a famous professional assassin, had been in that room for two hours now, waiting for his target to show up.
evp	target	noun	2	B2	something that you intend to achieve	If you want to lose weight, you have to set yourself a target.	My target is to be a professional tennis player but I need to work hard for it.
evp	target	noun	3	C1	a person or thing being criticized or blamed for something	The president was the main target of the senator's speech.	People get nervous, the bus driver gets nervous and finally the interpreter becomes the target of passengers' complaints.
evp	target	noun	4	C2	the group of people that a program, product, etc., is aimed at	Children aren't really our target market.	The target audience will be students with intermediate- to upper-intermediate command of the language.
evp	target	verb	1	C2	to aim advertising, criticism, or a product at someone	The products are targeted at people in their late twenties.	Although there are many excellent books appropriate to basic and intermediate students, there are not many books targeted at advanced and proficient students.
evp	task	noun	1	B2	a piece of work, especially something unpleasant or difficult	We usually ask interviewees to perform a few simple tasks on the computer just to test their aptitude.	To be honest, the task we were given was incredibly easy.
evp	taste	noun	1	B1	the flavor of a particular food in your mouth	I love the taste of garlic.	I don't know how old it is but I've gone there since I was a child and the taste of the food has never changed.
evp	taste	noun	2	B2	the particular things you like, such as styles of music, clothes, decoration, etc.	You have very good taste!	In my opinion, the variety of films you show cover all kinds of tastes.
evp	taste	noun	3	B2	a short experience of something different	This was my first taste of freedom.	Before you catch your plane, your group could visit our nice city and have a taste of our culture.
evp	taste	noun	4	B2	the ability to experience different flavors in your mouth	When you've got a cold you often lose your sense of taste.	
evp	taste	noun	5	C2	to be acceptable in a way that will not upset or anger people	His speech was in good taste.	I therefore thought that it would be in good taste to write about two of them.
evp	taste	noun	6	C2	to be unacceptable in a way that will upset or anger people	He told a joke about a plane crash which I thought was in rather poor taste.	
evp	taste	noun	7	C2	when you like or enjoy something	I've developed a bit of a taste for opera.	This diary was supposedly in the hands of Madame Isabella Costa, the widow of the late Christian Rudolph, a German actor with a taste for antiques.
evp	taste	verb	1	B1	to have a particular flavor	This sauce tastes strange.	The food is very typical and tastes good.
evp	taste	verb	2	B1	to put food or drink in your mouth to find out what flavor it has	Taste this sauce and tell me if it needs any salt.	Of course I tasted tequila, and I liked it very much.
evp	tasteful	adjective	1	C2	attractive and chosen for style and quality	a tasteful beige suit	They have refurbished the house in a very tasteful way, so you can still find some evidence of my grandmother once living there.
evp	tasteless	adjective	1	C1	having no flavor	The meat was dry and tasteless.	The canteen's food is tasteless and with almost the same menu every day.
evp	tasteless	adjective	2	C2	ugly or without style	tasteless decorations	A quick look at a major contemporary sports competition: Athletes bulging with muscles that were clearly not earned naturally, massive on-site medical invasion, and a tasteless supply of cheap gadgets.
evp	tasteless	adjective	3	C2	likely to upset or anger people	a tasteless joke	
evp	tasty	adjective	1	B1	Food which is tasty has a good flavor and is nice to eat.	They do a very tasty breakfast.	The meal was really tasty.
evp	tax	noun	1	B1	money that you have to pay to the government from what you earn or when you buy things	They're raising the tax on cigarettes.	In Kish or Aeshm you can buy electrical devices cheaper than in your country, because you can buy all goods without tax.
evp	tax	verb	1	C1	to make someone pay a tax	He felt that corporations were not being taxed enough.	For example, polluters should be taxed more heavily, and they should be fined.
evp	taxi	noun	1	A1	a car with a driver who you pay to take you somewhere	I took a taxi from the station to the hotel.	You can go there by bus, taxi or by light rail transit (LRT).
evp	taxpayer	noun	1	C2	a person who pays taxes	Taxpayers deserve better services than this.	Reduced carbon emissions is certainly a noble goal, but who is paying? - the customer, the taxpayer, you and me] And is the price worth the heartache? - Only time will tell.
evp	tea	noun	1	A1	a hot drink that you make by pouring water onto dried leaves, or the leaves that you use to make this drink	I'd love a cup of tea, please.	She likes tea and coffee.
evp	teach	verb	1	A1	to give lessons in a particular subject at a school, university, etc.	She teaches chemistry.	I'd like to learn English very well, because I'd like to teach in the future.
evp	teach	verb	2	A2	to show or explain to someone how to do something	My dad taught me to drive.	Dear students, Here is a book called "Cooking", it teaches you how to cook better.
evp	teach	verb	3	B1	If a situation teaches you something, it gives you new knowledge or helps you to understand something.	The whole experience taught him to be more careful with money.	This situation taught me that I should keep my important things with me all the time.
evp	teach	verb	4	C2	to punish someone so that they will not behave badly again	The next time she's late, go without her. That should teach her a lesson.	He didn't want to hurt Diane just teach her a lesson.
evp	teacher	noun	1	A1	someone whose job is to teach in a school or college	a history/science teacher	I love my teacher too.
evp	teaching	noun	1	B1	the job of being a teacher	He's always wanted to go into teaching.	The teacher has a lot of experience behind him, I think nearly 20 years of teaching.
evp	team	noun	1	A2	a group of people who play a sport or game together against another group of players	a basketball/hockey/netball team	We played volleyball and my team won.
evp	team	noun	2	B1	a group of people who work together to do something	a management team	He told me he was part of the sound team of the band I went to see.
evp	teamwork	noun	1	C1	when a group of people work well together	We won't achieve anything without good teamwork.	Nowadays teamwork is a skill that is highly demanded by employers.
evp	tear	verb	1	B1	to pull something so that it comes apart or breaks, or to become damaged like this	I tore my skirt on the chair as I stood up.	Although it's quite expensive, the clothes that I buy from there will not tear easily.
evp	tear	verb	2	C1	to remove something by pulling it quickly and violently	She tore his picture off the wall.	Inside, she felt that (part of) her life had been torn out, as one would tear out a page from a book.
evp	tear	verb	3	C2	to be unable to decide between two choices	I'm torn between the apple pie and the chocolate mousse.	As a consequence, we find ourselves torn between what we want to eat and what we feel we should be eating.
evp	tear	verb	4	C2	to destroy something that was united, such as a country, family or political party	The political situation threatened to tear the country apart.	Angola has been torn apart by a 15 year long civil war and is now one of the poorest countries in the world.
evp	tear	verb	5	C2	to criticize something very strongly	His ideas were torn apart at the meeting.	Nevertheless what I am saying was torn apart by an American piece of research giving a completely different version to mine.
evp	tear	verb	6	C2	to destroy a building or other structure because it is not being used or it is not wanted any more	They're going to tear down the old hospital and build a block of offices there.	Their old school had been torn down due to its unpopularity.
evp	tear	verb	7	C1	to tear paper into a lot of small pieces	He tore the letter up and threw it away.	She felt so humiliated and deceived that she tore up all his letters and put his photo in the drawer so that she would not keep thinking of him everytime she looked in that direction.
evp	tear	noun	1	B1	a drop of water that comes from your eye when you cry	These are tears of joy.	I had to fight the tears of rage, and my heart beat as fast as a drum.
evp	tear	noun	2	B1	crying	I found him in tears in his bedroom.	By the end of it, Mary Anne was nearly in tears.
evp	tear	noun	3	B1	to suddenly start to cry	She burst into tears and ran out of the room.	She burst into tears.
evp	tear	noun	4	C1	to cry	I shed a few tears when he left.	She was too preoccupied to talk to anybody and she had shed so many tears that she could cry no more.
evp	tease	verb	1	B2	to laugh at someone or say unkind things about them, either because you are joking or because you want to upset them	I used to hate being teased about my red hair when I was at school.	Ginny's classmates were always teasing her about her clothing.
evp	teaspoon	noun	1	B2	a small spoon that is used for mixing drinks and measuring small amounts of food, or the amount this spoon can hold	Add two teaspoons of salt.	Lastly, thank you for asking me what I'd like from the USA, because I am a very serious collector of teaspoons with different countries' flags on them]
evp	technical	adjective	1	B2	relating to the knowledge, machines or methods used in science and industry	a few technical problems	They could not get on stage until 1:30 because of technical problems.
evp	technical	adjective	2	B2	relating to practical skills and methods that are used in a particular activity	As a dancer she had great technical skill.	Federer glides over the court as if it's the easiest thing, and apart from his technical and physical skills he is a great personality.
evp	technically	adverb	1	C1	relating to the knowledge, machines, or methods used in science and industry	technically advanced weapons	Everybody has one of these technically engineered marvels and they come in different shapes, colors, prices and with a lot of configurable options.
evp	technically	adverb	2	C2	according to the exact details of a rule, law, or fact	Technically, lamprey are fish, though they are seen by many as snakelike monsters.	Working nine to five every weekday may not sound like too much of a bother, considering that it is technically only one third of the whole day, but we all know how depressing it can get when you're doing the same thing over and over again.
evp	technician	noun	1	C1	someone whose job involves practical work with scientific or electrical equipment	a lab technician	It could be the fault of the sound technician, although I believe that for the next Activity day we should be provided with better equipment and loudspeakers.
evp	technique	noun	1	B1	a particular or special way of doing something	We have developed a new technique for detecting errors in the manufacturing process.	I go on Mondays, Wednesdays and Friday[s] from 4:00 P.M to 7:00 P.M. I've learned a whole new bunch of tips, techniques and stuff I want to show you.
evp	techno	noun	1	C1	a type of electronic dance music	He's really into techno.	As for the music, Red Hot Chili [P]eppers did a really fine job with "Otherside," while the other video has the classic techno beat.
evp	technological	adjective	1	B2	relating to, or involving, technology	Technological advances/developments in computing and telecommunications will reduce the need for many people to travel to work.	I think that the more technological developments we have, the more comfortable lives we enjoy.
evp	technologically	adverb	1	C1	in a way that relates to or involves technology	Their society was technologically advanced.	The economy nowadays is so technologically driven it is a common belief that having a job in the computer industry means high pay and perks.
evp	technology	noun	1	B1	knowledge, equipment, and methods that are used in science and industry	computer technology	I prefer reading scientific magazines like "Focus" or "Nature" because they speak about science and technology.
evp	tedious	adjective	1	C1	boring	a tedious job	The idea of going to work out to keep fit might be tedious sometimes but the majority of young people are interested in taking up an activity these days.
evp	teenage	adjective	1	B1	aged between 13 and 19 years old	a teenage daughter	However, teenage films are better for me.
evp	teenager	noun	1	A2	a young person between 13 and 19 years old	The magazine is aimed at teenagers and young adults.	Well I want to help in the concert, and I think that all teenagers like rock music.
evp	telecommunications	noun	1	B2	the sending and receiving of messages over distance, especially by telephone, radio and television	the telecommunications industry	Accompanied by the success of these telecommunications companies, a lot of jobs have been created.
evp	telephone	noun	1	A2	a piece of electronic equipment that you use to talk to someone who is in another place, or the communication system that allows you to do this	There was a telephone on the desk.	I want to sell my old telephone.
evp	telephone	verb	1	A2	to communicate with someone by telephone	Telephone me if you're going to be late.	Please telephone me at home.
evp	telescope	noun	1	B2	a piece of equipment, in the shape of a tube, that makes things which are far away look bigger or nearer	a very powerful telescope	I just laugh when he tries to convince me of their existence, once he even told me that he saw a spaceship in the sky while he was observing the stars with his telescope.
evp	television	noun	1	A1	a piece of equipment in the shape of a box, with a screen on the front, used for watching programs	a flat-screen television	I want to sell my small television.
evp	television	noun	2	A1	the programs that are shown on a television	I mostly watch television in the evening.	He likes watching television and listening to the radio.
evp	television	noun	3	B1	the system or business of making and broadcasting programs for television	She works in television.	If possible, I would go to the television company for help, then they will show it o] TV.
evp	tell	verb	1	A1	to say something to someone, usually giving them information	Did she tell you about her vacation?	I'd like to tell you about our college.
evp	tell	verb	2	A2	to order or advise someone to do something	I told you to stay here.	The teacher told us to bring a notebook and a pencil!
evp	tell	verb	3	B1	to advise someone how/what/when to do something	Kit will tell you how to get there.	He tells us how to do the different kinds of exercises.
evp	tell	verb	4	B1	used to emphasize your feelings about something	I can't tell you how grateful I am for your help.	I can't tell you how nervous I am.
evp	tell	verb	5	B2	to know or recognize something from what you hear, see, etc.	You could tell that he was tired.	I could tell it was the voice of a man, but I failed to identify it.
evp	tell	verb	6	B2	If something tells you something, it gives you information.	What does the survey tell us about the lives of teenagers?	We have all seen the reports which tell us about the problems of pollution from cars.
evp	tell	verb	7	C1	to notice a difference between two things	I can't tell the difference between their accents.	Not only will their critical sense atrophy but also they will not be able to tell the difference between what is right and wrong.
evp	tell	verb	8	C2	used to suggest a plan	Tell you what, let's go swimming and then get a pizza.	I'll tell you what, why don't you let me pay for a hotel room for a week, just the time you need to make some arrangements?
evp	tell	verb	9	C2	used to say that you were right and that someone should have believed you	He's lazy?  I told you so, didn't I?	See, I told you so", Azman said with a grin.
evp	tell	verb	10	B2	to speak angrily to someone because they have done something wrong	The teacher told me off for swearing.	Then he started shouting at me and telling me off and I felt so bad that I burst into tears in front of everyone]
evp	temper	noun	1	B2	when someone becomes angry very quickly	She has a real temper.	He was a very complicated character who had a bad temper and was easily angered.
evp	temper	noun	2	B2	to suddenly become angry	The children behaved so badly that I lost my temper.	Yesterday, I must confess, I lost my temper with my son.
evp	temper	noun	3	C2	to succeed in staying calm and not becoming angry	It was hard to keep my temper with so many things going wrong.	He never offends people and he keeps his temper even if someone insults him.
evp	temperature	noun	1	A2	how hot or cold something is	Preheat the oven to a temperature of 350 degrees.	The sky is blue, the sea is blue and calm and the temperature is about 30°C.
evp	temperature	noun	2	B1	how hot or cold someone's body is	The doctor examined him and took his temperature.	Respected Madam, I'm sorry that I can't make it to the English class tomorrow as I have a high temperature.
evp	temperature	noun	3	B1	to be hotter than usual because you are ill	My throat hurts and I have a temperature.	I have a temperature and cold, and so my nose is very red.
evp	temple	noun	1	B1	a building where people in some religions go to pray or worship	a Buddhist temple	You can see many temples and Maiko, who are traditional people wearing Kimono.
evp	temporarily	adverb	1	B2	for a short time	This office is closed temporarily for remodeling.	We can work temporarily for up to 6 months.
evp	temporary	adjective	1	B1	existing or happening for only a short or limited time	temporary staff	It was a reality show that involved a lot of young people who were applying for a temporary job - I think a marketing job - and finally only one of them got it.
evp	temptation	noun	1	B2	a feeling that you want to do or have something, although you know you should not	In these situations, there is a huge temptation to lie.	I felt the irresistible temptation to meet new people and feel some freedom.
evp	ten	noun	1	A1	the number 10	I've invited ten people.	This is only ten minutes away by car.
evp	tenant	noun	1	C2	someone who pays rent to live in a room, house, etc.	I have tenants in my apartment at the moment.	In an apartment building if all tenants have the will to see the whole structure as their home we can create beautiful surroundings.
evp	tendency	noun	1	C1	something that someone often does, or something that often happens	She has a tendency to talk for too long.	There is a tendency to choose canned and preserved foods instead of fresh ones.
evp	tender	adjective	1	C2	kind and gentle	a tender kiss/look	I like to observe the careful and gentle way in which a mother communicates to her four-year-old child, selecting the words with great care with a tender look in her eyes.
evp	tender	adjective	2	C2	Tender meat or vegetables are soft and easy to cut.	This meat is lovely and tender.	Their steaks are so tender you hardly need your knife and sometimes the plates are too small for the steaks.
evp	tender	adjective	3	C2	at the young age of 8/17/25, etc.	She first appeared on stage at the tender age of 12.	She met my father at the tender age of 14, and she soon knew that this was the man she wanted to stay with for the rest of her life.
evp	tenderness	noun	1	C2	the quality of being kind and gentle	We were struck by his tenderness toward the old people.	But I will cherish the fact that I have done my best to provide my children with love and tenderness, while watching them turning into adults in a brave new world such as ours.
evp	tennis	noun	1	A1	a sport in which two or four people hit a small ball to each other over a net	Do you feel like a game of tennis?	I'd like to play football and tennis.
evp	tense	noun	1	B1	any of the forms of a verb which show the time at which an action happened	"I sing" is in the present tense, "I will sing" is in the future tense and '" sang" is in the past tense.	The first lesson was about the present tense and wasn't really difficult for us.
evp	tense	adjective	1	B2	nervous, worried, and not able to relax	She was very tense as she waited for the interview.	Beyond the fact you feel tired and tense, I'm afraid that if you keep on working this way, you'll get serious health problems in the future.
evp	tense	adjective	2	B2	A tense situation makes you feel nervous and worried.	There were some tense moments in the second half of the game.	There was a tense atmosphere.
evp	tension	noun	1	B2	a feeling that you are nervous, worried, and not relaxed	You could feel the tension in the room as we waited for our exam results.	Today's world is also known for stress and tension.
evp	tension	noun	2	B2	a feeling of fear or anger between people, groups or countries who do not trust each other	ethnic/racial tension	I was only eight years old but yet I could feel the tension between my parents.
evp	tent	noun	1	B1	a structure made of metal poles and cloth which is attached to the ground with ropes and used as a cover or to sleep under	It only took twenty minutes to put the tent up.	We slept in a tent for two nights there.
evp	term	noun	1	B2	a word or phrase that is used to refer to a particular thing, especially in a technical or scientific subject	a legal/medical/scientific/technical term	Extreme overworking can even lead to death and that was discovered and confirmed by Jap[a]nese doctors who created a special medical term for the illness caused by overworking.
evp	term	noun	2	C1	one of the periods of time that the school or college year is divided into	The fall term starts September 7 and ends December 22.	Dear Anne, I'm writing to you to tell you that I want to study Business this term.
evp	terminal	noun	1	B2	a building where you can get onto an aircraft, bus, or ship	Your flight to Perth will leave from Terminal 4.	Here is some information to let you know[.] First of all, I arrive at 4:30 p.m. at terminal 3. I've had my hair cut and dyed, so I enclosed my latest picture[.]
evp	terms	noun	1	B2	the rules of an agreement	He violated the terms of the agreement.	So we would be very grateful to get some information about the club and the terms of membership.
evp	terms	noun	2	B2	used to explain which part of a problem or situation you are referring to	In financial terms, the project was not a success.	In terms of dates for you to come I thought of November 22nd, November 28th or December 4th.
evp	terms	noun	3	C2	to have a good/bad, etc. relationship with someone	I'm still on friendly terms with my old colleagues.	The fact that they both live alone requires them to be on good terms with the rest of us.
evp	terms	noun	4	C2	to not speak to someone because you have argued with them	My brother and I aren't on speaking terms.	Just imagine how many are those who hate their relatives or at least one of their relatives and aren't even on speaking terms with them or him.
evp	terms	noun	5	C2	in a direct and often angry way	I told him to go away in no uncertain terms.	Intellectuals are used to saying in no uncertain terms that money represents the bad side of the sport.
evp	terms	noun	6	C2	to accept a sad situation	He still hasn't come to terms with his brother's death.	She had, at last, come to terms with her loss and although she still, deep in her heart, grieved for Michael she now knew that she could move on.
evp	terrace	noun	1	B2	a flat area outside a house, restaurant, etc. where you can sit	We had our drinks on the terrace.	I enjoyed the evenings sitting on your terrace listening to your interesting stories about your childhood.
evp	terrible	adjective	1	A2	very bad, of low quality, or unpleasant	The weather was terrible.	It would be terrible if my parents knew about it.
evp	terribly	adverb	1	B1	very	She was terribly upset.	I'm terribly sorry but I've got a job interview.
evp	terribly	adverb	2	B2	very badly	I slept terribly last night.	Although he sang quite well, he danced terribly and that spoiled part of the show.
evp	terrific	adjective	1	B1	very good	It's a terrific opportunity.	My teacher is terrific and she's always happy.
evp	terrific	adjective	2	C1	very large, great, or serious	a terrific storm	Indeed what we had from this trip was a terrific headache!
evp	terrified	adjective	1	B1	very frightened	He sat in the corner like a terrified child.	I was really terrified. Then I turned on the light and...
evp	terrify	verb	1	B2	to frighten someone very much	The idea of parachuting out of a plane terrifies me.	Instead my thoughts drifted away and started to terrify me once more.
evp	terrifying	adjective	1	B2	extremely frightening	It was a terrifying experience.	That was the most terrifying thing I have ever seen.
evp	territorial	adjective	1	C2	relating to the land that is owned or controlled by a particular country	a territorial dispute	In former times these territorial and religious disputes resulted in a decrease of population.
evp	territory	noun	1	B2	land that is owned or controlled by a particular country	He was shot down in enemy territory.	In a way, Sweden is a unique country because it has never had any wars on its territory and avoided the harmful effects of any conquerors.
evp	territory	noun	2	B2	an area that an animal or person thinks belongs to them	Cats like to protect their territory.	I think that man shouldn't] take animals out of their own territory.
evp	territory	noun	3	C2	an area of knowledge or experience	With this project we'll be moving into unknown territory.	Sure, breaking the habit and "exploring new, unknown territory" will certainly seem somewhat frightening at first, but we all have to deal with it.
evp	terror	noun	1	B2	a feeling of being very frightened	They fled from the city in terror.	I froze with terror.
evp	terrorism	noun	1	B2	the use of violence for political purposes, for example putting bombs in public places	Governments must cooperate if they are to fight international terrorism.	
evp	terrorist	noun	1	B2	someone who is involved in terrorism	There has been an increase in terrorist attacks.	Some people believed that their town was occupied by terrorists or even aliens.
evp	test	noun	1	A1	a set of questions to measure someone's knowledge or ability	She had to take an aptitude test as part of the interview.	I do writing, spelling tests, speaking, etc.
evp	test	noun	2	B1	a short medical examination of part of your body or of something such as blood that is taken from your body	an eye test	So I decided to call and ask for information, then as soon as I had done some medical tests I was accepted.
evp	test	noun	3	B2	a situation that shows how good something is	This project will be a real test of his ability.	It's true that asserting oneself in society is a real test of self-reliance and that a lot of people encounter hardships.
evp	test	verb	1	B1	to give someone a set of questions, in order to measure their knowledge or ability	You'll be tested on all the areas you've studied this semester.	
evp	test	verb	2	B2	to do something in order to discover if something is safe, works correctly, etc.	None of our products are tested on animals.	Before we can use a certain medicine, hairspray, make-up, etc,] it might have been tested on animals to see what their reaction is.
evp	test	verb	3	B2	If a situation tests someone, it proves how good, strong, etc. they are.	This next match will really test them.	They were examining each other under the only lamppost around, testing each other waiting for the first move.
evp	testify	verb	1	C2	to say what you know or believe is true in a law court	Elliott testified that he had met the men in a bar.	They took her to the station and promised her immunity if she would testify against James.
evp	text	noun	1	A2	a text message	Send me a text when you get there.	Send me a text.
evp	text	noun	2	B1	the written words in a book, magazine, etc., not the pictures	a page of text	
evp	text	noun	3	B1	a short piece of writing that you discuss in class	Could you all read the text, please?	Next lesson I will have to read a small text.
evp	text	verb	1	A2	to send someone a text message	I texted her to arrange a time to meet.	Can you text me back after?
evp	textbook	noun	1	A2	a book about a particular subject, written for students	a chemistry/French textbook	I left my textbook in your house.
evp	text message	noun	1	A2	a written message, usually containing words with letters left out, sent from one cell phone to another	He sent me a text message to say he would be late.	It is blue and I can send text messages, and I can take photos.
evp	texture	noun	1	C1	the way that something feels when you touch it	wood with a rough texture	At the college they teach you how to make the arrangements, the use of color, space, movement and texture.
evp	thank	verb	1	A2	to tell someone that you are grateful for something they have done or given you	Did you thank her for your present?	I thanked her for her present.A1
evp	thank	verb	2	B1	something you say when you are happy because something bad did not happen	Thank God nobody was hurt in the accident.	"Thank God my car is OK", he said.
evp	thankful	adjective	1	C1	pleased or grateful about something	We were thankful that none of the children saw the accident.	This revolution led to our freedom and we are thankful to the heroic people of 1821, because if they didn't start the revolution, we wouldn't be here today.
evp	thankfully	adverb	1	C1	used at the beginning of a sentence to show that you are pleased or grateful about something	Thankfully, nobody was hurt.	Thankfully, I live in a country where there are plenty of tourist attractions and outstanding historical sites.
evp	thanks	noun	1	B2	words or actions that show you are grateful or pleased about something	They expressed their thanks to the organizers.	I want give you thanks for your hospitality.
evp	thank you	noun	1	B1	something that you say or do in order to show that you are grateful for something	I'd like to say a big thank you to everyone for all their help.	I'm writing to say a very big thank you for our fantastic weekend.
evp	that	adverb	1	B2	used when describing the size, amount, or state of something or someone	She's too young to walk that far.	My English isn't that bad, actually I have been taught English in school for six years.
evp	theater	noun	1	A2	a building with a stage where people go to watch plays	a Broadway theater	You can[] visit the museum and theater.
evp	theft	noun	1	B2	the action or crime of stealing something	car theft	So, who was it that made this such a perfectly-organised theft?
evp	theme	noun	1	B2	the subject of a talk, book, movie, etc.	The theme of loss runs through most of his novels.	I think that the basic theme of the book is very original and the author has written lots of great novels.
evp	then	adverb	1	A1	at that time	I was working in the city then.	See you then.
evp	then	adverb	2	A1	next, or after something has happened	She trained as a teacher and then became a lawyer.	He picks [C]ris up from school and then goes shopping.
evp	then	adverb	3	A2	so or because of that	Have a rest now, then you won't be so tired this evening.	You can read the text from a song on screen and then you can sing the song.
evp	then	adverb	4	B2	used in order to add something to what you have just said	I've got two essays to write and then my science project to finish.	
evp	then	adverb	5	B2	If something happens now and then, it happens sometimes but not very often.	I love chocolate, but I only eat it now and then.	If you really love to have a snack now and then, try to eat fruit and vegetables, instead of sweets.
evp	then	adverb	6	C1	sometimes, but not often	We still get together for lunch every now and then.	Each day choose 10 new words and learn them by heart. In a week you will have learned 70 new words, and in a year 3640, a lot of words. Please, do not forget to repeat them every now and then.
evp	then	adverb	7	C2	used when adding a fact to something you have just said	I failed my history test - but then again, I didn't do much studying for it.	The fact that people live longer nowadays does have some advantages, but then again it also causes a lot of problems.
evp	theoretical	adjective	1	C2	based on ideas rather than practical experience	This explanation is entirely theoretical.	And while we are lucky enough to be discussing this on a theoretical level, it is good to remember that for some people in the world, the lack of money leads to death on a daily basis.
evp	theoretical	adjective	2	C2	based on the ideas that relate to a subject, not the practical uses of that subject	theoretical physics	Prof. Haken is the renowned head of one of the institutes of theoretical physics at the University of Stuttgart.
evp	theoretically	adverb	1	C2	in a way that obeys some rules but is not likely	It is theoretically possible.	Already now the problem of hunger and starvation seems immense, though - theoretically - the earthly supplies of food are sufficient to feed the approximately 8,000,000,000 people who live on this planet.
evp	theory	noun	1	B2	an idea or set of ideas that is intended to explain something	Darwin's theory of evolution	During his full time schedule, he worked o] his project about "relative theory".
evp	theory	noun	2	B2	If something is possible in theory, it should be possible, but often it does not happen in that way.	In theory, the trip ought to take three hours, but in practice it usually takes four
because of road work.	To sum up, in theory you can find a lot of solutions to this problem, but in practice, actually some people who hunt without permission aren't] punished.
evp	theory	noun	3	C2	the set of principles on which a subject is based	economic theory	Only after a few decades of further research did it become clear how many possible applications game theory actually has.
evp	therapeutic	adjective	1	C1	helping to cure a disease or improve your health	the therapeutic benefits of massage	The drink produced, tsikondia, is one of the necessary drinks for the cold nights of winter. It is also believed to have therapeutic effects on people's health.
evp	therapeutic	adjective	2	C1	helping you to feel happier and more relaxed	I find gardening very therapeutic.	Some people consider shopping therapeutic, much like a hobby.
evp	therapist	noun	1	C1	someone whose job is to treat a particular type of mental or physical illness	a speech therapist	Teams for athletes or swimmers are built of: coach, physiologist, diet therapist, physiotherapist, doctor and massage therapist.
evp	therapy	noun	1	B2	the work of treating mental or physical illness without using an operation	speech therapy	In another way, I can say that books are the best stress management therapy; they are easy to carry wherever you go.
evp	thereafter	adverb	1	C2	after a particular amount, time, or event	Faxes cost $1.10 for the first page, and 70 cents for each page thereafter.	The unemployment rate thereafter started to rise yearly and reached its highest rate in March 1998 (approximately 5.5%).
evp	thereby	adverb	1	C1	as a result of a particular action or event	The new dam will improve the water supply and thereby reduce hunger and disease.	By interacting live with people from all over the world, you can use non-native languages on a daily basis and thereby help developing your foreign language skills.
evp	therefore	adverb	1	B1	for that reason	We were unable to get funding and therefore had to abandon the project.	[I] want to make it look more modern. Therefore, I've decided to get a CD player and some speakers.
evp	thermometer	noun	1	B2	a piece of equipment that measures the temperature of air or of your body	Keep the thermometer under your tongue.	
evp	thesis	noun	1	B2	a long piece of writing that you do as part of an advanced university course	a doctoral thesis	For me, this is an advantage because I need to have a lot of information for my doctoral thesis.
evp	thesis	noun	2	C2	a theory that is suggested and can then be argued with or agreed with	That is the central thesis of the book.	This thesis applies not only to music but, in my opinion, also to many other walks of life.
evp	thick	adjective	1	B1	Something that is thick is larger than usual between its opposite sides.	a thick rope	I have to wear thick clothes.
evp	thick	adjective	2	B1	growing close together and in large amounts	thick forest	I was looking at a land of moor, marsh, and thick forest.
evp	thick	adjective	3	B2	difficult to see through	Thick, black smoke was pouring out of the chimney.	We tried to walk down the stairs but the smoke was just getting thicker and thicker so we had to climb up on the roof.
evp	thick	noun	1	C2	If you support or stay with someone through thick and thin, you support or stay with them in both easy and difficult situations.	She'd stuck by Neil through thick and thin.	As I had neither friends nor parents who could stand by me through thick and thin, this diary meant a lot to me.
evp	thief	noun	1	B1	someone who steals things	a car thief	I watched three police officers trying to arrest the thieves but they failed.
evp	thigh	noun	1	B2	the top part of your leg above your knee	My thighs were aching after the climb.	
evp	thin	adjective	1	A2	Something that is thin is smaller than usual between its opposite sides.	a thin slice of meat	Wear some thin clothes because it will be very hot.
evp	thin	adjective	2	A2	A thin person or animal has very little fat on their body.	She's too thin.	He's tall, thin and he has got black hair and black eyes.
evp	thin	adjective	3	C2	If a feeling or explanation starts to wear thin, it becomes weaker or harder to accept.	I've warned you several times about being late and my patience is wearing thin.	Hardly could they fight against others, when their own convictions had started to wear thin.
evp	thin	adjective	4	C2	to suddenly disappear in a mysterious way	He was walking ahead of me on the path and then he just vanished into thin air.	The fact is that vacations are not problem-solving, and whatever one wants to leave behind does not vanish into thin air, it just lurks in the corner of your mind until the return date.
evp	thin	noun	1	C2	If you support or stay with someone through thick and thin, you support or stay with them in both easy and difficult situations.	She'd stuck by Neil through thick and thin.	As I had neither friends nor parents who could stand by me through thick and thin, this diary meant a lot to me.
evp	thing	noun	1	A1	used to refer to something without saying its name	I need to get a few things in town.	Please tell me before you come what things you like to eat.
evp	thing	noun	2	A1	your possessions or a set of objects	I'll just get my things together and we can go.	I like this place because the people are happy to work for example on a farm and they don't need a lot of things to be happy.
evp	thing	noun	3	A2	used to refer to an activity or event	Meeting Nina was the best thing that's ever happened to me.	Hi Fatma, Congratulations of your wedding, it's a really nice thing in your life.
evp	thing	noun	4	A2	a fact or characteristic of someone or something	The thing I like about Carol is her sense of humor.	For example, I can do photos, I can hear the music, I can play with it, but the most important thing is that I can call my parents when I'm not near them.
evp	thing	noun	5	B1	used instead of "anything" in order to emphasize what you are saying	I haven't got a thing to wear.	We tried to fish, but didn't catch a thing, not even a shoe!
evp	thing	noun	6	B1	the same	Training isn't the same thing as education.	It is not the same thing as London but the people are very friendly.
evp	thing	noun	7	B1	what is happening, especially in your life	How are things with you?	How are things in your part of the world? Things are fine with me.
evp	thing	noun	8	B1	similar objects, activities or events	We eat a lot of Italian food  - pizza, pasta, things like that.	When you're with your friends, you usually go to roller coasters and things like that.
evp	thing	noun	9	B2	used to refer to an idea or comment	I can't believe he would say such a thing!	I got mad and said "How dare you say such a thing."
evp	thing	noun	10	B2	everything about a situation	I just want to forget the whole thing.	And, less than five minutes later, our mother knew the whole thing.
evp	thing	noun	11	B2	used to say that there are other details or examples in addition to the ones you are mentioning	It's worth visiting the museum while you're here. There's an exhibition about Darwin and a good collection of paintings, among other things.	Dear Mrs Jones, When meeting a friend of mine a couple of days ago we discussed, among other things, our spare time activities.
evp	thing	noun	12	B2	used to emphasize that something does not exist	There's no such thing as ghosts!	But when I asked for these, I was told that no such thing existed and so the advertisement was once again proved wrong.
evp	thing	noun	13	B2	used to introduce an answer, comment or explanation	I'd love to go out tonight, but the thing is, I've got to finish my report.	The thing is that on July 23rd I had not found any outfit that suited me yet, which made me feel desperate.
evp	thing	noun	14	B2	If it's a good thing that something happened, it is lucky or fortunate that it happened.	It's a good thing (that) we booked our tickets early.	I think it's a good thing that your parents are going to come, because [...] maybe it would make it easier for you to convince them to let you spend a week here during Xmas.
evp	thing	noun	15	B2	not anything	After the guests had gone, there wasn't a single thing left to eat.	I'm terribly sorry, but I hit it with my hand while trying to turn on the light: I wasn't able to see a single thing because it was pitch-dark all around.
evp	thing	noun	16	B2	the most important fact in a situation	You're happy and that's the main thing.	The main thing is to be happy and to love yourself.
evp	thing	noun	17	B2	used to refer to a person or animal when you are expressing your feelings towards them	You look tired, you poor thing.	When I go to the zoo I like to see them close by me, and look at them carefully; but at the same time I say: "Poor thing, I wouldn't like to be one of them."
evp	thing	noun	18	C1	the thing that is best, if you cannot have or do the thing you really want	Coaching baseball is the next best thing to playing.	For many working people, there is hardly time to cook and prepare your dinner, so the next best thing is to rush into a M[cD]onalds' or Burger King.
evp	thing	noun	19	C1	used for saying that something is true in general if you think about all its aspects	The show was a great success, all things considered.	All things considered, it seems like "Kavanagh Catering Services" would be most suitable for the students.
evp	thing	noun	20	C1	something that is certain to happen	Your promotion is a sure thing – you’re the best person for the job.	Although I never knew at which time it would be, the only sure thing I had in mind was the need to come back home, into your arms!
evp	thing	noun	21	C2	to live, act, or behave in the way you want to, without depending on other people	While he was away traveling, he pretty much did his own thing.	Their attitude only stimulated me to do "my own thing."
evp	thing	noun	22	C2	used to give a reason for something	You can't give Amy that shirt - for one thing it wont fit her.	Well, for one thing, you cannot spy on your subjects 24 hours a day - they would not allow it, and it would be prohibitively expensive.
evp	thing	noun	23	C2	used to talk about part of a story that happens in a sudden and surprising way	A bike came speeding around the corner, and the next thing I knew I was lying on the ground.	And the next thing I knew was that I was playing cards with 3 men.
evp	think	verb	1	A1	to believe that something is true, or to expect that something will happen, although you are not sure	I think she's called Joanna.	I think we will have a good time.
evp	think	verb	2	A1	to have an opinion about something or someone	What did you think of the movie?	It would be wonderful to eat chicken with some vegetables. What do you think about that?
evp	think	verb	3	A2	to consider doing something	I'm thinking of taking up running.	I'm thinking of painting it blue.
evp	think	verb	4	B1	to use the brain to plan something, solve a problem, understand a situation, etc.	He thought for a few seconds before answering.	I thought for a few days and finally decided to buy "Titanic".
evp	think	verb	5	B1	to use your imagination and intelligence to produce an idea, a solution to a problem, or an answer to a question	When did you first think of the idea?	Sud[d]enly I thought of a simple way to get money from him.
evp	think	verb	6	B1	to remember someone or something	I was just thinking about you when you phoned.	I often think of them. I miss them so much.
evp	think	verb	7	B2	to consider a person's needs or wishes	She's always thinking of others.	If you don't think of your family and private life, at least think of your health.
evp	think	verb	8	C1	to have a particular opinion about someone or something	They were thought of as slightly eccentric.	Today's youth is thought of as lazy "couch potatoes" and unhealthy "computer-freaks," but this is only true for the minority of young people.
evp	think	verb	9	C1	to carefully consider whether what you are planning is a good idea	I'd think twice about spending so much money on one thing, if I were you.	Now I will think twice before I buy your paper again.
evp	think	verb	10	C1	to do something immediately, without considering whether it is a good idea	When he asked me out, I didn't think twice!	Your advertisement seemed very convincing and as I intended to travel to exotic locations I did not think twice.
evp	think	verb	11	C1	If you cannot think straight, you are not thinking clearly about something.	I was so tired, I couldn't think straight.	My stress wouldn't let me think straight.
evp	think	verb	12	C2	to not like someone, or to believe that something is not good quality	I don't think much of the food here.	When they met for the first time, they did not think much of each other.
evp	think	verb	13	C2	used to express how surprising something is	Who would have thought that buying a house could take so long!	Who would have thought that instead of getting square-eyed from watching too much TV, Malcolm was getting sore-eyed from spending too much time scribbling in his leather-bound diary late at night?
evp	think	verb	14	C2	to admire someone, or to believe that something is good quality	Simon thinks a lot of you, you know.	He was well known all over the world and even critics thought highly of him.
evp	think	verb	15	C2	used to say that you have just thought of something	Come to think of it, I've got two batteries that you can have upstairs.	Come to think of it, it really is quite difficult to say.
evp	think	verb	16	C2	to think carefully about what might happen in the future, or to make plans for things you want to do in the future	I'm already thinking ahead to what I might do when my exams are over.	On the other hand Muriel has learned that she has to think ahead to protect herself and her son.
evp	think	verb	17	C2	to think about things that happened in the past	I thought back to the time when I was living in France.	Mary tried to think back to when she had taken it last from the drawer.
evp	think	verb	18	B2	to consider an idea or plan carefully before making a decision	I'll think it over and give you an answer next week.	She hadn't been able to think over the situation.
evp	think	verb	19	B2	to carefully consider the possible results of doing something	He'd put the plan into action without thinking it through.	Maybe this is our future if we don't think through the situation soon]
evp	thinker	noun	1	C2	someone who considers important subjects or produces new ideas	a political/religious thinker	Isaiah Berlin is one of the most important political thinkers of the last century, whose influence on students, politicians and even the greater public is often underestimated.
evp	third	noun	1	B2	one of three equal parts of something	He cut the cake into thirds.	Two thirds said we should film the students playing football.
evp	the third person	noun	1	B2	the form of a verb or pronoun that is used when referring to the person or thing being spoken about or described	"She" is a third person pronoun.	
evp	thirst	noun	1	B2	the feeling that you want or need to drink something	We were all suffering from thirst.	Many animals died of hunger and thirst.
evp	thirst	noun	2	C2	a strong wish for something	a thirst for adventure	At that time we were not old enough yet to appreciate this, but today I am very thankful because due to my parents, I've developed a thirst for knowledge that will never be satisfied.
evp	thirsty	adjective	1	A2	needing to drink	We were hungry and thirsty by the end of our walk.	You must take a bottle of water because you will be thirsty.
evp	thirteen	noun	1	A1	the number 13	eleven, twelve, thirteen, fourteen	Dear Joshua, I'm writing to tell you that I am now thirteen Years old.
evp	thirty	noun	1	A2	the number 30	twenty, thirty, forty	It's thirty years old.
evp	thirty	noun	2	B2	to be aged between 30 and 39	Most of my friends are in their thirties.	He was in his thirties and really handsome.
evp	thirty	noun	3	B2	the years 1930 through 1939	They moved to Paris in the thirties.	In the beginning of the thirties in the USA the film industry grew]
evp	this	adverb	1	C1	used when describing the size, amount, or state of something or someone	It was only about this high off the ground.	
evp	thorough	adjective	1	B2	careful and including every detail	a thorough revision of the manuscript	People believe that school aims to give pupils a thorough education in each subject, in order to enable them to deal with various kinds of situations.
evp	thoroughly	adverb	1	B2	completely, very much	I thoroughly enjoyed the performance.	I thoroughly enjoyed reading "Animal Farm" because it is a satire based on the Russian Revolution.
evp	thoroughly	adverb	2	B2	very carefully	Wash the spinach thoroughly before cooking.	The murder had been thoroughly planned.
evp	though	adverb	1	B2	used especially at the end of a sentence, to add a fact or opinion to what you have just said	Okay, I'll come to the party.  I'm not staying late though.	It would be fun to work with you. There are a few things we should think about though.
evp	thought	noun	1	B1	an idea or opinion or an image that comes into your mind	Do you have any thoughts about/on where you want to spend Christmas?	Her thoughts were interrupted by Ben, who asked if she wanted to go for a walk with him.
evp	thought	noun	2	B2	the activity of thinking, or when you think about something carefully	She sat staring at the picture, deep in thought.	I am concerned so please give it some thought.
evp	thought	noun	3	C2	when you do something that shows you care about someone	Thanks for the card - it was a really kind thought.	[T]he greeting cards she sent made our woman more and more angry, rather than thankful for the kind thought.
evp	thought	noun	4	C2	a series of connected thoughts or ideas which come or happen one after the other	I was interrupted and lost my train of thought.	Stevens's ideas on dignity become very clear if we follow his train of thought through the book and if we examine closely the events which encourage him into further discussion of this issue.
evp	thought	noun	5	C2	to think about someone who is in a bad situation	Spare a thought for all the people who have lost their homes.	At this point, we should spare a thought for those who are not involved in the sports world.
evp	thoughtful	adjective	1	B2	kind and always thinking about how you can help other people	Thank you for phoning when I was ill - it was very thoughtful of you.	It was so thoughtful to think of me and send this letter.
evp	thoughtful	adjective	2	C1	carefully considering things	He has a thoughtful approach to his work.	So we have less time to prepare breakfast, lunch or dinner in a more "thoughtful" manner.
evp	thoughtful	adjective	3	C2	quiet because you are thinking about something	You look thoughtful.	
evp	thoughtfully	adverb	1	C2	in a thoughtful way	He gazed thoughtfully into the distance.	She set it beside her husband's picture and looked at it thoughtfully.
evp	thoughtless	adjective	1	C2	not considering how your actions and words might upset someone else	I should have called her to say we'd be late - it was thoughtless of me.	My impulsive nature causes me to act hastily quite often, so I frequently repeat myself because of some bitchy, thoughtless remark I have made.
evp	thousand	noun	1	A2	the number 1000	There were more than three thousand people at the concert.	Being my producer, I had to give her half the prize, which was two thousand dollars.
evp	thread	noun	1	C2	a long, thin piece of cotton, wool, etc. that is used for sewing	a needle and thread	
evp	thread	noun	2	C2	the connection between different events or different parts of a story or discussion	By that point I'd lost the thread of the conversation.	The antagonism between Jack and Ralph, who can be regarded as the novel's main characters, forms - in my view - the real thread of the narrative.
evp	thread	noun	3	C2	a group of pieces of writing on the Internet in which people discuss one subject	I read the thread about older mothers.	
evp	thread	verb	1	C2	to push thread through the hole in a needle	Could you thread this needle for me, please?	
evp	thread	verb	2	C2	to move carefully through a crowded place, changing direction in order to avoid people or things	She threaded her way through the crowd.	And if I thread my way through the crowd along the street, I can find almost all things I want to buy, from inexpensive souvenirs to internationally known brands of suits.
evp	threat	noun	1	B2	someone or something that could cause harm or damage	a threat to the environment	That is the only way to protect human life from this serious threat.
evp	threat	noun	2	B2	when someone says they will kill or hurt you, or cause problems for you if you do not do what they want	a death threat	Since then we have been receiving threats.
evp	threat	noun	3	C2	the possibility that something bad will happen	the threat of invasion	The threat of nuclear weapons has since grown into a constant condition.
evp	threaten	verb	1	B2	to tell someone that you will kill or hurt them, or cause problems for them if they do not do what you want	He threatened the staff with a gun and demanded money.	The others joined us, and they began to threaten us with their knives.
evp	threaten	verb	2	C1	to be likely to cause harm or damage to something or someone	His knee problem is threatening his cycling career.	In addition to air pollution, more noise will take place and as a result, our city residents' health will be threatened.
evp	threaten	verb	3	C2	If something bad threatens to happen, it is likely to happen.	The conflict threatened to spread to neighboring countries.	However, this ongoing technological progress became questionable when the atomic bomb threatened to wipe humanity off the face of the earth.
evp	three	noun	1	A1	the number 3	I've got three sisters.	I have three daughters.
evp	threshold	noun	1	C2	the level at which something starts to happen	He had a low boredom threshold.	That night...that night - yet another one spent together online turned out to be the final threshold.
evp	threshold	noun	2	C2	at the start of a new and important time or development	We're on the threshold of a new era in European relations.	On the threshold of the third millennium, there is no stopping progress.
evp	thrill	noun	1	C1	a strong feeling of excitement and pleasure	It was a big thrill meeting the stars of the show.	SURFING Riding the waves can be the thrill of a lifetime.
evp	thrill	verb	1	C2	to make someone feel excited and happy	Ballesteros thrilled the golf world with his exceptional skill.	The creative process is what thrills me.
evp	thrilled	adjective	1	B2	very excited and pleased	She was thrilled with your present.	I'm thrilled with the idea of working with you.
evp	thriller	noun	1	B1	a book or movie with an exciting story, often about crime	I like reading thrillers.	I'm reading the thriller by Dan Brown: "Angeli e Demoni", it's wonderful.
evp	thrilling	adjective	1	B2	very exciting	a thrilling game	What has made me hesitate to join a diving club is that deep water really scares me, but at the same time I feel excited by the thrilling feeling.
evp	thrive	verb	1	C1	to grow very well, or to become very healthy or successful	The business is thriving.	She seems to thrive on criticism and wants to get better at everything she does.
evp	thriving	adjective	1	C2	growing very well or becoming very healthy or successful	They have a thriving economy.	In a thriving city such as London, there were loads of things she could do.
evp	throat	noun	1	B1	the front of the neck, or the space inside the neck down which food and air can go	a sore throat	I caught a cold and I have a sore throat too, so I can't talk properly.
evp	throat	noun	2	C2	to make you feel such strong emotion that you want to cry	It was a very moving speech, and it brought a lump to my throat.	This devastating image brought a lump to John's throat.
evp	throne	noun	1	C2	the special chair used by a ruler, especially a king or queen	He sat on a throne made of gold.	Some of them were mummified and others were sitting on their thrones in some ancient wall-drawings.
evp	throne	noun	2	C2	the position of being king or queen	Elizabeth II ascended the throne when her father died.	King Henry at the time of the play is a young vigorous man who needs to have a male heir to the throne of England.
evp	through	adverb	1	B1	from one end or side to another	He opened the door and walked through.	A few bombs crashed close to the car but we managed to get through.
evp	throughout	adverb	1	C1	in every part of a place or during the whole of a period of time	The house was painted pink throughout.	Children's stories, however, were one of the most successful parts of the Activity Day and all of the spectators were on the edge of their seats throughout.
evp	throw	verb	1	A2	to make something move through the air by pushing it out of your hand	She threw the ball back over the fence.	She threw a glass of water at me.
evp	throw	verb	2	C1	to put something somewhere quickly and without thinking about it	He threw his clothes on the floor and got into bed.	Sometimes, if he doesn't like the food he will surely throw it on the floor.
evp	throw	verb	3	C2	to suddenly and quickly move your body or a part of your body	She threw her arms around the child.	I went into my bedroom and threw myself on the bed.
evp	throw	verb	4	C2	to make someone start a new and difficult job or activity without helping them or preparing them for it	My first job was to organize a huge conference - they really threw me in at the deep end!	Sometimes we can be thrown in at the deep end and have qualms about making a decision.
evp	throw	verb	5	C2	to stop trying to do something because you do not think you can succeed	Their candidate should just throw in the towel and admit defeat.	You have to possess tenacity: never throw in the towel.
evp	throw	verb	6	C2	to take a risk	I decided to throw caution to the wind and book a ticket to India.	They just threw caution to the wind, and did what they wanted.
evp	throw	verb	7	C2	a very short distance	The house is just a stone's throw from the beach.	Whatever you want it is a stone's throw from your home.
evp	throw	verb	8	B1	to get rid of something that you do not want any more	So when are you going to throw away those old magazines?	I suggest you throw away your books and come with me to the sea!
evp	throw	verb	9	C1	to start doing something with a lot of enthusiasm and energy	She's really thrown herself into her new job.	The more you throw yourself into learning English in an English-speaking country, the more interesting and fascinated you will feel.
evp	throw	verb	10	B2	to force someone to leave	He was thrown out of school for taking drugs.	
evp	throw	verb	11	B2	to vomit	I spent the night throwing up.	The next thing I knew was that I was throwing up, in front of everyone, including my mother!
evp	thumb	noun	1	B1	the short thick finger on the side of your hand which makes it possible to hold and pick things up easily	She still sucks her thumb.	After, we lit the candles, took our seats round the table, put all our hands in front of us above the table and joined thumbs and little fingers to make a circle.
evp	thumb	noun	2	C1	a way of judging something that is not exact but which will help you to be correct enough	As a rule of thumb, you need one egg for every 125g flour.	I think that I'm only one among many that have a diary as their most precious possession, but, as a rule of thumb, I would think that people value objects in terms of how replaceable they are.
evp	thunder	noun	1	B1	the loud noise in the sky that you hear during a storm	thunder and lightning	They said something about thunder and rain.
evp	thunder	noun	2	C2	a sudden, loud sound that is made by thunder	We heard a clap of thunder.	Suddenly, I heard a loud clap of thunder.
evp	thunderstorm	noun	1	A2	a storm that has thunder and lightning	We sheltered in the barn during the thunderstorm.	On the next day, there was an extraordinary thunderstorm!
evp	Thursday	noun	1	A1	the day of the week after Wednesday and before Friday	I'm having my hair cut after work on Thursday.	On Tuesday, Thursday and Friday I have French and physics.
evp	thus	adverb	1	B2	used after saying a fact to introduce what then happened as a result	They planned to reduce staff and thus to cut costs.	As a result of the density, the atmosphere in the halls also became hot and humid, thus making the whole experience rather unpleasant.
evp	tick	verb	1	C2	If a clock or watch ticks, it makes a sound every second.	The clock ticked loudly.	In the silence he could hear that the heating system was on and the grandfather clock was ticking, punctuating the minutes that passed.
evp	ticket	noun	1	A1	a small piece of paper that shows you have paid to do something, for example travel on a bus, watch a movie, etc.	a concert ticket	I['ll] buy the tickets.
evp	tide	noun	1	B2	the regular rise and fall in the level of the sea	high/low tide	And then, I'll go to the beach for sunbathing and for swimming in the sea but if the tide is out.
evp	tidy	adjective	1	C2	neat, with everything ordered and arranged in the right place, or liking to keep things like this	They live in a tidy three-bedroom apartment downtown.	Waiters are decent and kind, and when you enter the restaurant it gives the impression of a clean, tidy place.
evp	tie	verb	1	B1	to fasten something with string, rope, etc.	The dog was tied to a tree.	But I knew and felt that my knife was still tied to my leg.
evp	tie	verb	2	B1	to make a knot in a piece of string, rope, etc.	She tied the scarf.	While Jane was tying the lace, she convinced herself that it was just her imagination.
evp	tie	verb	3	C2	to have the same score as someone else at the end of a competition or game	Sweden tied with France in the winter sports competition.	
evp	tie	verb	4	C2	to get married	We're planning to tie the knot in April.	She was going to tie the knot in July.
evp	tie	verb	5	B2	to tie a part of someone's body with a rope or something similar so that they cannot get away	The two members of staff were tied up during the robbery.	It was his mother being tied up in his living room, unable to speak.
evp	tie	noun	1	A2	a long, thin piece of cloth that a man wears around his neck with a shirt	He always wears a jacket and tie to work.	I got presents like shoes, ties, shirts, pens, etc.
evp	tie	noun	2	C2	relationships that connect you with a place, person, etc.	Family ties are weaker if you move a long way away.	I come from a Greek background, where bonds and ties with one's family are highly valued and respected.
evp	tiger	noun	1	B1	a large wild cat that has yellow fur with black lines on it	The zoo has several tigers.	We saw elephants, tigers, snakes, and monkeys.
evp	tight	adjective	1	B1	fitting your body very closely	a tight skirt	I hate wearing tight clothes, or shoes with high heels.
evp	tight	adjective	2	B2	firm and difficult to move	Make sure the knot is tight.	You should always wear a tight seatbelt because it could save your life.
evp	tight	adjective	3	B2	controlled and obeying all rules completely	Security was tight at the meeting between the two leaders.	The building is huge with high technology and construction and has tight security.
evp	tight	adjective	4	B2	If money, time, or space is tight, there is only just enough of it.	We’re on a tight budget and can’t afford to eat out much.	Finally, as I am a student on a very tight budget, I would prefer a cheap B and B, or a family.
evp	tight	adjective	5	C2	If cloth, wire, foil, etc., is tight, it has been pulled so that it is straight or smooth.	Make sure the line is tight.	
evp	tight	adjective	6	C2	a difficult situation	She had been in a tight corner before and had always managed to cope.	It is a great pressure, requiring a lot of effort and sense of humor but does work in most cases, helping to find the best way out of a tight corner.
evp	tight	adverb	1	B2	very firmly or closely	Hold on tight!	He held her tight and kissed her.
evp	tight	adverb	2	C2	so that something is pulled to be straight or smooth	The plastic cover was stretched tight over the top of the pool.	
evp	tighten	verb	1	B2	to become tighter or to make something become tighter	His hand tightened around her arm.	They simply filled the bathtub with ice cold water and tightened the belts.
evp	tighten	verb	2	C2	to try to spend less money	Since I lost my job we've all had to tighten our belts.	All this costs money and where do we get this extra money from but from the tax payers, who once again have to tighten their belts.
evp	tightly	adverb	1	B2	firmly or closely	I gripped the telephone tightly.	She did not want to be eaten, and held her son tightly to her breast.
evp	tights	noun	1	A2	a piece of women's clothing made of thin material that covers body below the waist, including the legs	a pair of tights	I like wearing skirts because you can choose nice tights and boots to wear, too!
evp	timber	noun	1	C2	trees that are grown to provide wood or trees cut down for the use of their wood	We passed a truck hauling timber to the sawmill.	In these days, the transport of timber is done via roads directly to the major cities.
evp	timber	noun	2	C2	a large, heavy piece of wood or roughly trimmed tree, used for building	Old ok timbers hold up the roof of the storehouse.	The old timber house looks almost like it is about to fall apart from the outside but that impression changes quickly once you get inside.
evp	time	noun	1	A1	a particular point in the day or night	"What's the time?" "It's ten o'clock."	What time would you like to come?
evp	time	noun	2	A2	a particular amount of time	It takes a long time to get from Los Angeles to Sydney.	I prefer Friday, be]caus I've got some free time then]
evp	time	noun	3	A2	Time is what we measure in minutes, hours, days, etc.	He wants to spend more time with his family.	I love this game and the last two days I have spent all my time on it.
evp	time	noun	4	A2	an occasion or period, or the experience connected with it	The last time we went to Florida, it rained every day.	We had a good time and all the guests were happy.
evp	time	noun	5	A2	continuously	I wish you'd stop criticizing me all the time.	He laughs all the time.
evp	time	noun	6	B1	a particular point of the day, week, month, year, etc. that is suitable for a particular activity, or at which something is expected to happen	vacation time	My father called me on the phone and told me it was time to go home!
evp	time	noun	7	B1	used to say that something should happen or be done now	It's time we got going.	My father called me on the phone and told me it was time to go home!
evp	time	noun	8	B1	a number of minutes, hours, days, etc. that is available for something or that is needed for something	If I have time, I'll call Sam.	If you'll have time you can visit the other towns like Cosly' Krumlov or Pisek.
evp	time	noun	9	B1	early or at the right time	We arrived in time to catch the train.	If I don']t come back in time, you can put a note on my desk.
evp	time	noun	10	B1	not early or late	I got to school on time.	So, I will not be on time for my English class tomorrow.
evp	time	noun	11	B1	If two things happen at the same time, they happen together.	We arrived at the same time.	The kind of clothes I most like are casual but fashionable at the same time.
evp	time	noun	12	B1	used to say how much bigger, better, worse, etc. one thing is than another thing	Ben earns three times more than me.	[I]n my opinion, you must visit the cities, which are three times better than the countryside.
evp	time	noun	13	B1	a week, two months, etc. from now	I have to go to the doctor again in a month's time.	We are back in 2 weeks' time.
evp	time	noun	14	B1	used at the beginning of a story to mean a long time ago	Once upon a time there was a beautiful princess.	Once upon a time there was a very poor family.
evp	time	noun	15	B2	a period in history	Charles Dickens' novel "A Tale of Two Cities" is set at the time of the French Revolution.	It was so nice to see all members of the family and have the opportunity to talk about old times, as well as old friends.
evp	time	noun	16	B2	sometimes but not often	From time to time I still think of her.	I wash the dishes from time to time (I sometimes try to avoid this unpleasant duty) and clean our house.
evp	time	noun	17	B2	for a long period of time	I've been doing yoga for some time.	I have been observing you for some time and it's now quite clear to me that you have been working too hard since you changed your job.
evp	time	noun	18	C2	for now but not permanently	I'm living with my parents for the time being.	I think that is all for the time being.
evp	time	noun	19	C1	If it is about time or high time that someone did something, it should have been done sooner or a long time ago.	It's about time the school improved its cafeteria service.	If not, it isabout time you found out everything about this device you use every day!
evp	time	noun	20	C1	the time in a particular place	The plane arrives at 2:50, New York time.	By the way, I will be arriving on September 19, 2003, at around 8:00 p.m local time, I will be waiting for you at the arrival area of Newark International airport.
evp	time	noun	21	C1	sometimes	At times, I wish I didn't have to go to school.	STUDYING METHODS All teachers at the college are highly skilled professionals and can be very demanding at times, but this is in your best interest.
evp	time	noun	22	C1	to leave enough time to do something although you are busy	You have to make time to do your homework.	I'm terribly sorry for not being able to make time to pick you up when you arrive.
evp	time	noun	23	C1	If you say that it is only a matter of time before something happens, you are sure it will happen but you do not know when.	It's only a matter of time before someone gets into an accident on this road.	In my opinion it is only a matter of time before it is decided to put an end to this country being a kingdom.
evp	time	noun	24	C1	to do something without hurrying	Take your time choosing - there's no hurry.	If you're going to land at the "Lugano-Agno" airport, as you told me in your last letter, the first thing I recommend to you is to be patient and take your time.
evp	time	noun	25	C1	not fashionable or modern	Dad's a bit behind the times.	We should improve our equipment. Otherwise we will be behind the times.
evp	time	noun	26	C1	very soon	We'll be home in no time.	Team work is very important for us and you will make many friends in no time.
evp	time	noun	27	C2	again and again on repeated occasions	We’ve been hearing the same news story time after time.	Time after time he stopped and looked around, not sure if he was alone.
evp	time	noun	28	C2	to have no respect for someone or something	I have no time for people who wont even listen to another point of view.	First of all it's hard work, I have no time for lazy people.
evp	time	noun	29	C2	to criticize someone and make them feel guilty about something they have done	Ever since I missed that catch, the other players have been giving me a hard time.	I'm not saying that I wasn't normal or anything, I just gave my family a hard time sometimes.
evp	time	noun	30	C2	used to talk about an occasion in the past without saying exactly which occasion it was	Most of us have made a similar mistake at one time or another.	Haven't we all at one time or another come home from a holiday feeling healthy and strong with a smile on our face thinking, this is what life is about.
evp	time	noun	31	C2	used to show that something is not good when it is the best it can be	He's not exactly patient at the best of times.	They knew that even at the best of times he looked unpleasant but now he was of a completely different appearance]
evp	time	verb	1	B2	to measure how long it takes for something to happen or for someone to do something	It's a good idea to time yourself while you do the exercises.	
evp	time	verb	2	C2	to arrange for something to happen at a particular time	We timed our arrivals at the airport so that we could meet and share a taxi to the city.	
evp	time-consuming	adjective	1	C1	needing a lot of time	The legal process was time-consuming and expensive.	SMSs are too short and inconvenient to threaten face-to-face communication. They can only transfer a small amount of information and typing them is time-consuming.
evp	timid	adjective	1	C2	shy and easily frightened	a timid little boy	Mr Garland asked Tom again in his quiet, timid voice.
evp	timing	noun	1	B2	the time when something happens	"Are we early?" "No, your timing is perfect - dinner is almost ready."	[The] timing was perfect, the car was waiting for us and it was really easy.
evp	tiny	adjective	1	B1	extremely small	the baby's tiny hands	I got a small cottage in a tiny village, called San Bernardino.
evp	tip	noun	1	B1	a piece of useful advice	He includes a few tips on growing vegetables.	Dear Julie, Sam, and Max I'm just writing to give you guys some tips about your trip to Brazil.
evp	tip	noun	2	B1	an extra amount of money that you give to a driver, someone working in a restaurant, etc. to thank them	a 15% tip	Also don't forget the tips: All the customers give tips when they pay the bill.
evp	tip	noun	3	C1	the end of something long and narrow	the tips of your fingers	The "hole" that has formed in Antarctica has become so extensive that it reaches the southern-most tip of the Argentinian mainland plus the entire island of Tierra del Fuego.
evp	tip	noun	4	C2	to be a small part of a very big problem	We've corrected a few errors, but they're just the tip of the iceberg.	I'm not used to such behavior but that was the tip of the iceberg.
evp	tip	verb	1	C2	to fall or to make something fall	Her chair tipped over and she fell onto the floor.	Loud music, the drum playing all day long, the kids playing around the street tipping over trash cans and destroying the grass and gardens and a lot more.
evp	tip	verb	2	C2	to move so that one side is higher than the other side, or to make something move in this way	If everyone sits on one side of the boat, it will tip over!	
evp	tip	verb	3	C2	to make the contents of a container fall out by holding the container in a position where this happens	She tipped the contents of her purse onto the table.	
evp	tip	verb	4	C2	to warn someone secretly about something so that they can take action or prevent it happening	The robbery was planned for that night, but an anonymous caller tipped the police off.	Therefore, I think I should write to you and tip you off in advance.
evp	tire	noun	1	A2	a thick, round piece of rubber filled with air, that fits around a wheel	I've got a flat tire.	I am going to have a competition tomorrow, and my bicycle got a flat tire and I don't have money to fix it.
evp	tire	verb	1	C2	to become tired or to make someone become tired	She's been leading throughout the race, but it now looks like she's tiring.	I suggest you have a different subject every day in order not to tire your listeners.
evp	tire	verb	2	C2	to become bored with someone or something, or to stop enjoying an activity	Viewers never tire of nature programs.	"A man must be strong and persistent in pursuing his aims and goals, he must never tire of it" - he used to say to me.
evp	tired	adjective	1	A1	feeling that you want to rest or sleep	I was very tired when I got home from work last night.	Sometimes I don't like doing anything at college, because after work I am very tired.
evp	tired	adjective	2	B1	bored or annoyed by something that has happened too often	I'm tired of listening to her problems.	I never get tired of watching this film, I really love it!
evp	tiredness	noun	1	B2	the state of being tired	He said that it was tiredness that led him to make the mistake.	I felt so relaxed and my tiredness disappeared almost entirely.
evp	tiresome	adjective	1	C2	making you feel annoyed or bored	a tiresome little boy	For me it is the best way to relax after a tiresome day full of anxiety and responsibilities.
evp	tiring	adjective	1	B1	making you feel tired	I've had a very tiring day.	The only bad thing is that the trip was a bit tiring.
evp	tissue	noun	1	B1	a soft piece of paper that you use for cleaning your nose	I have some tissues in my bag.	P.S. Bring tissues because you won't stop crying when you watch the film.
evp	title	noun	1	B1	the name of a book, movie, etc.	The title of Evelyn Waugh's first novel was "Decline and Fall."	I can't remember the title of the movie.
evp	title	noun	2	C2	what you get if you win an important sports competition	He won his third straight title in speed skating.	He won the national championship and, later, was sold to Barcelona, where he also won many titles.
evp	toast	noun	1	A2	bread that has been heated to make it brown	a slice of toast	They prefer toast, muesli and a cup of tea or coffee for breakfast.
evp	toast	noun	2	C1	a few words or a short speech to honor someone or wish everyone well, said while people lift their glasses then take a drink	At the wedding, there was a toast to the happy couple.	During the wedding meal, it is good manners to propose a toast to the bride and the bridegroom when they come to your table.
evp	tobacco	noun	1	C1	the dried leaves of a plant with the same name that are inside cigarettes and cigars and smoked in a pipe	Twenty-eight percent of people asked thought that the advertising of tobacco should be banned.	If you want to phone, you have to go to a "tabac" - that means a shop where they sell tobacco - and ask for a telephone card.
evp	today	adverb	1	A1	on this day	What's the date today?	I['m] calling[ ]you today at 8 o'clock.
evp	today	adverb	2	B2	in the period of time that is happening now	Today, people are much more concerned about their health than they were in the past.	Today we cannot go to a place without seeing a computer.
evp	today	noun	1	A1	this day	Today is even hotter than yesterday!	Today is my birthday.
evp	today	noun	2	B2	the period of time that is happening now	With today's technology almost anything seems possible.	However, technology has made immense steps forward and the cars of today come close to perfection.
evp	toddler	noun	1	C2	a child who has just learned to walk	I was looking after three toddlers.	These meetings for mothers with toddlers should take place more often than once a month.
evp	toe	noun	1	A2	one of the five separate parts at the end of your foot	your big/little toe	I have to go to the doctor because I've broken my toe.
evp	toe	noun	2	C2	to make sure that someone gives all their attention to what they are doing and is ready for anything that might happen	We have random inspections to keep everyone on their toes.	
evp	toenail	noun	1	B2	one of the hard, flat parts on top of the end of your toes	I need to cut my toenails.	
evp	together	adverb	1	A1	with each other or doing something with each other	We used to go to aerobics together.	I often meet my friend in there, we go to shopping, and go to the park, together.
evp	together	adverb	2	B1	at the same time	Everyone seemed to arrive together.	He came to my house early in the morning and then we left together.
evp	together	adverb	3	B2	used to say that two or more things are joined to each other, mixed with each other, etc.	She tied the two pieces of rope together.	
evp	together	adverb	4	B2	combined	Together they must earn over ninety thousand dollars a year.	When you ride a bike on the main road, it's very dangerous to breathe the dirty air - together with the gases from the cars.
evp	together	adverb	5	C2	in one place	I'll just get my things together and then we can go.	
evp	toilet	noun	1	A1	a bowl that you sit on or stand near when you get rid of waste substances from your body	I was on the toilet when the phone rang.	I can remember I left it on the table near the toilet.
evp	token	noun	1	C1	something that you give to someone in order to show them love, to thank them, etc.	I gave Helen some chocolates as a token of thanks for all her help.	Nevertheless, you can also prepare a small present as a token of your friendship or affection.
evp	token	noun	2	C2	in a similar way	You have to let people know your plans in good time and, by the same token, they should give you some advance warning.	Recently, however, new findings showed that a glass of wine is not only harmless, but also does wonders for the heart, preventing vascular diseases. By the same token, eggs, which were considered to be the number one cause of high cholesterol, are now accepted by nutritionists.
evp	tolerance	noun	1	C2	willingness to accept behavior and beliefs that are different from your own, although you might not agree with or approve of them	religious tolerance	One needs to develop a spirit of tolerance, respect and even appreciation toward world views and practices that might differ from one's own.
evp	tolerant	adjective	1	C1	allowing people to do what they want especially when you do not agree with it	a tolerant attitude	During my stay, I was living with a family that was very generous and tolerant.
evp	tolerate	verb	1	B2	to accept or allow something although you do not like it	I will not tolerate that sort of behavior in my class.	He couldn't tolerate anybody disturbing childrens' lives for the sake of money, because he was a very moral man.
evp	tolerate	verb	2	C2	to be able to deal with something unpleasant and not be harmed by it	It seems these ants can tolerate temperatures which would kill other species.	In comparison with wealthy children, they can tolerate the enormous weather changes like both extremes of hot and cold weather as they are not much exposed to air conditioners and heaters.
evp	toll	noun	1	C1	money that you pay to use a bridge, road, etc.	You have to cross a toll bridge.	The government can introduce road toll fees on some highly used roads, so that some traffic will be encouraged to use a different route.
evp	toll	noun	2	C2	the number of people who are killed or injured	Independent sources say that the death toll from the earthquake runs into thousands.	There would be no surprise at all if the death toll rises.
evp	toll	noun	3	C2	to have a bad effect on someone or something, especially over a long period of time	The stress was starting to take its toll on him.	The famine has obviously taken its toll on him.
evp	tomato	noun	1	A1	a soft, round, red fruit eaten in salad or as a vegetable	a cheese and tomato sandwich	I like salad - tomatoes, carrots, cucumbers, sweetcorn.
evp	tomb	noun	1	B2	a place where a dead person is buried, usually with a stone structure	He is buried in a marble tomb.	My father opened it slowly and we saw a huge marble tomb behind it.
evp	tomorrow	adverb	1	A1	on the day after today	I'll call you tomorrow.	Tomorrow I must work in the shop, but in the evening I've got time and can come to you at 7 o'clock.
evp	tomorrow	noun	1	A1	the day after today	Is John coming to tomorrow's meeting?	Tomorrow is the Chinese new year.
evp	tomorrow	noun	2	C2	the future	the children of tomorrow	In fact, young children are our future and what tomorrow's world will be depends a lot on what kind of adults our children will be.
evp	ton	noun	1	B2	a unit for measuring weight, equal to 907 kilograms	They generated nearly 6 tons of rubbish.	
evp	ton	noun	2	B2	a lot of something	We've got tons of things to do before they arrive.	There were tons of handmade items!
evp	tone	noun	1	B2	the quality of a sound, especially of someone's voice	I tried to use a sympathetic tone of voice.	Paul, the leader of the group, shouted: "Keep quiet" and he went on in a quiet tone: "They want this kind of reaction, they want to frighten us...
evp	tone	noun	2	B2	an electronic sound made by a telephone	a dial tone	Quickly, a man got the phone and was trying to call the police but there was no tone.
evp	tone	noun	3	C2	the general mood or style of something	I didn't like the humorous tone of the article - I thought it inappropriate.	Both stories are written in a very warm tone; the writer has an obvious sympathy for people who are suffering and he has an extremely negative attitude toward the cruelness of the modern world.
evp	tongue	noun	1	B1	the large soft piece of flesh in the mouth which you can move and which you use for tasting, speaking, etc.	I burned my tongue on some soup last night.	My mouth became so dry that my tongue stuck to my palate.
evp	tongue	noun	2	B2	the first language that you learn when you are a child	Italian is my mother tongue but I started to learn English when I was six.	I can speak English and French fluently, added to my mother tongue, Japanese.
evp	tonight	adverb	1	A1	during the night of the present day	I hope you sleep well tonight.	I need my cellphone because my boss will call me tonight!
evp	tonight	noun	1	A2	the night of the present day	Tonight will be my first opportunity to meet her.	
evp	tool	noun	1	B2	a piece of equipment that you use with your hands in order to make or repair something	power tools	And, of course, she got a set of excellent tools and I won only one thing: a tube of modeling glue.
evp	tool	noun	2	B2	a thing that helps you to do a particular activity	Computers are an essential tool for modern scientists.	From my personal experience, I can also say that a personal computer is also an amazing tool.
evp	tool	noun	3	C1	something that helps you to do what needs to be done or you want to do	We believe the new law will be an effective tool in fighting poverty.	To begin with, competition can be a useful tool to stimulate people's working motivation.
evp	tooth	noun	1	A1	one of the hard white objects in the mouth, which are used for biting and chewing	front/back teeth	It is important for me, because without it I can't clean my teeth.
evp	tooth	noun	2	C2	to accept a difficult situation and deal with it in a determined way	I hate exercising, but I just grit my teeth and try to get through it.	
evp	toothache	noun	1	A2	pain in one or more of your teeth	Have you got a toothache?	I'm going to visit a dentist, because of a toothache. [H]e is unfortunately available only at the same time, when we have our lesson.
evp	toothbrush	noun	1	A2	a small brush that you use to clean your teeth	I forgot to pack my toothbrush.	I think [I] left my toothbrush at your house.
evp	toothpaste	noun	1	B1	a substance that you use to clean your teeth	Put a small amount of toothpaste on the brush.	Modern technology has changed our lives in many ways. When I have to wake up earlier, I use my alarm clock, and if I have to brush my teeth, I use my toothbrush with a little toothpaste.
evp	top	noun	1	A2	the highest part of something	She waited for me at the top of the stairs.	When I went to the top of the castle, I could see a beautiful view of Edinburgh.
evp	top	noun	2	B1	a piece of clothing worn on the upper part of the body	a black/striped top	I like wearing formal clothes but at a party I usually wear jeans and a nice top.
evp	top	noun	3	B2	in addition to something else that is bad	On top of all this bad luck, he lost his cell phone.	On top of everything, the weather was bad and the sea was so cold that I couldn't swim.
evp	top	noun	4	C1	the cover or lid used to close a container or pen	a bottle top	You should know that all the garbage you have should be left downstairs in the gray container with the red top.
evp	top	noun	5	C2	the most important position in a company, team, etc.	At forty he was already at the top of his profession.	Besides she climbed to the top of her profession, when no one expected her to.
evp	top	noun	6	C2	to be very happy	I had just won a major tournament and I was feeling on top of the world.	I felt like I was on top of the world and nothing could take that happiness from me.
evp	top	noun	7	C2	completely	I've searched the house from top to bottom and still can't find it.	Very often we can see someone in black, from top to bottom, or in white.
evp	top	adjective	1	B1	at the highest part of something	There's a dirty mark on the top left-hand corner of the photo.	My bedroom is quite big and on the top floor.
evp	top	adjective	2	B1	the best, most important, or most successful	He's one of the country's top athletes.	In the future I hope to be a clothes designer or a top model.
evp	top	verb	1	C2	to be the most important, most successful, etc.	The song topped the charts for five weeks.	It was in summer 1993 when Paul McCartney proved once again that he still is topping the bill.
evp	top	verb	2	C2	used when you mention something in addition to all the other good or bad things that have happened	Then, to top it all off, they found themselves locked out of their own house.	It all happened that day when somebody brought me huge and heavy documentation … So many new and uncommon words, definitions of the equipment that enterprise has on stock, so much law and legal terminology! And the thickness of all that to top it off!
evp	top	verb	3	C2	to be covered with something	lemon tart topped with cream	Again leave some room for the desserts] displayed on a tray: cream caramel topped with hazelnut ice cream or a slice of chocolate tart.
evp	top	verb	4	C2	to finish something in an enjoyable or successful way	We topped off the day with a fantastic meal at Bruno's.	To top everything off, in Europe you now have one currency which means easy payments, wherever you are.
evp	topic	noun	1	B1	a subject that you talk or write about	Our discussion ranged over various topics, such as climate change and nuclear weapons.	First we talked about topics, like school, different free[-]time activities and about popular rock bands.
evp	tornado	noun	1	B2	an extremely strong and dangerous wind that blows in a circle and destroys buildings as it moves along	A tornado had swept through the north of the state, causing terrible destruction.	The storm was getting very wild outside, she wasn't sure if it was a real tornado, she had never seen one, but somehow she could sense the danger.
evp	torrential	adjective	1	C2	Torrential rain is very heavy rain.	The rain was absolutely torrential.	All he could hear was the sound of torrential rain hitting the windows and the roof of the hotel.
evp	torture	noun	1	C1	a very unpleasant experience	I had to sit there listening to her for two whole hours - it was torture!	I would be grateful if I could get some of my money back, because the days in Scotland were a torture to me.
evp	torture	noun	2	C2	the act of causing someone great physical or mental pain, often in order to make them tell you something	He revealed the secret under torture.	Tyranny and torture are installed with Roger as the executioner.
evp	torture	verb	1	C2	to cause someone severe pain, often in order to make them tell you something	It is claimed that the officers tortured a man to death in 1983 in a city police station.	And they would torture him and kill him like an animal, as soon as they were convinced that he had no chance of finding the money.
evp	total	noun	1	B1	the amount you get when you add several smaller amounts together	That figure at the bottom of the column is the total.	Hi Jo, the lessons are two days a week Wednesday and Friday, one hour a day for a total of 20 days[.]
evp	total	adjective	1	B1	including everything	the total cost	The total cost was only £60, including lunch, and I think it was worth every penny of it.
evp	total	adjective	2	B2	extreme or complete	total silence	The room was in total darkness and I couldn't hear anything.
evp	total	verb	1	C2	to add up to a particular amount	This is the eighth volume in the series, which totals 21 volumes in all.	And there has been a significant increase in insurance, up by 5%, totalling 8% of the total expenses.
evp	totalitarian	adjective	1	C2	belonging to a political system in which the people in power have complete control and do not allow anyone to oppose them	The people overthrew the totalitarian regime.	Its descriptions are sometimes shocking since his work is about totalitarian regimes and people living on the fringes of society.
evp	totally	adverb	1	B1	completely	They're totally different.	But in the new class, it is totally different.
evp	touch	verb	1	B1	to put your hand on something	That paint is wet - don't touch it.	Suddenly, someone touched my arm and I screamed.
evp	touch	verb	2	B2	If two things touch, they are so close to each other that there is no space between them.	These two wires must not touch.	Out of the blue, I felt the wheels touching the ground.
evp	touch	verb	3	B2	to affect your emotions, especially so that you feel pleased or a little sad	I was deeply touched by her letter.	Her stories are based on real life, so they're not only easy to read but also touch our hearts.
evp	touch	verb	4	C2	to not harm someone or not damage something	Don't worry about them - they can't touch you.	She goes to a place that is clean, where the heat and dust can't touch her any more.
evp	touch	noun	1	B1	to communicate or continue to communicate with someone by telephoning, or writing to them	Are you still in touch with any of your old school friends?	I'll be in touch again soon.
evp	touch	noun	2	B2	to stop communicating with someone, usually because they do not live near you now	We lost touch over the years.	So I wouldn't like losing touch with you but on the contrary I want to see you often.
evp	touch	noun	3	B2	when you put your hand or finger on something	I felt the touch of his hand on my face.	
evp	touch	noun	4	B2	the ability to feel things by putting your hand on them	the sense of touch	
evp	touch	noun	5	C2	a small amount	Add a little olive oil and a touch of vinegar.	Personally, I think that it would be a good idea to combine the classical architecture with a touch of modernity.
evp	touch	noun	6	C2	a small detail that makes something better	The flowers were a nice touch.	For most of us, music is the essential spice that makes our feelings stronger, the perfect finishing touch to a scene that we have created ourselves.
evp	touch	noun	7	C2	used to describe a situation that is uncertain	The doctor says it is touch and go whether Mary will recover.	The idea of earning a lot certainly appeals to me but it's touch and go whether the job may bring a lot of money right from the start.
evp	touch	noun	8	C2	to be unaware of things that have been happening or what other people think	Tell me what's been going on - I've been away for a month and out of touch.	In much worse cases, some individuals may even be trapped in the virtual world and get out of touch with the real one.
evp	tough	adjective	1	B2	difficult	He's had a tough time at work recently.	You know it was really a very tough decision for me.
evp	tough	adjective	2	B2	Tough people are mentally strong and not afraid of difficult situations.	You have to be tough to be successful in politics.	It is about a tough old fisherman from Cuba who sails out alone in a small boat to fish.
evp	tough	adjective	3	B2	describes food that is difficult to cut or eat	This steak is very tough.	Your pork chop was as tough as old boots and the salad dressing was sour!
evp	tough	adjective	4	C2	Tough rules, standards, etc., are severe.	Tough new safety standards were introduced for cars.	
evp	tough	adjective	5	C2	not easy to break or damage	Playground equipment needs to be very tough.	
evp	tough	adjective	6	C2	unfair or unlucky	It can be tough on kids when the family moves to a new home in a different neighborhood.	It was tough on the worn out employees.
evp	toughness	noun	1	C2	the quality or state of being tough	She has a reputation for toughness.	I would be less lax than my daddy was so as to accustom them to the toughness and brutality of life, so that they could face many difficulties in their lives.
evp	tour	noun	1	A2	a visit to and around a place, area, or country	a tour of
Europe	First I'd like us to go to a cafe and after that you can give me a tour around the town.
evp	tour	verb	1	B1	to go on a tour somewhere	We spent a month touring (around) Kenya.	She and her husband came over to England for a short stay and are touring Europe on a second honeymoon as it's the 10th anniversary of their marriage.
evp	tour guide	noun	1	A2	someone whose job is to show visitors a place or area	Our tour guide explained the church's history.	Tomorrow, our tour guide is going to take us to Retiro's park and Puerta de Alcalã.
evp	tourism	noun	1	B1	the business of providing services for tourists, including organizing their travel, hotels, entertainment, etc.	Tourism is Venice's main industry.	As you know, Peru is one of the countries with the most tourism around the world.
evp	tourist	noun	1	A2	someone who visits a place for pleasure and does not live there	Millions of tourists visit Rome every year.	I'm really interested in tourism and I would like to take a course to be a tourist guide.
evp	tournament	noun	1	B1	a competition with a series of games between many teams or players, with one winner at the end	a tennis/chess/golf tournament	I met him at a basketball tournament and his name is Mark.
evp	towel	noun	1	A2	a soft piece of cloth or paper that you use for drying yourself or for drying something	a bath/beach towel	You have to bring a bottle of water and a towel.
evp	towel	noun	2	C2	to stop trying to do something because you do not think you can succeed	Their candidate should just throw in the towel and admit defeat.	You have to possess tenacity: never throw in the towel.
evp	tower	noun	1	B1	a very tall, narrow building, or part of a building	the Eiffel Tower	I think that, first of all, we should visit our capital because it has many old towers, castles and churches, which you have to see.
evp	town	noun	1	A1	a place with houses, stores, and other buildings where people live and work that is smaller than a city	He was born in the small town of Elnora, Indiana.	He is from Lithuania and he lives in my town.
evp	town	noun	2	A2	a larger city or town nearby where people go to work or shop or for entertainment	She's going into town to do some shopping.	I will meet you in town at 1:00 p.m.
evp	town	noun	3	B1	the place where you live or work	I'm leaving town for a few days.	I[t]'s just that I'm going to be out of town because of a volleyball competition.
evp	toxic	adjective	1	B2	poisonous	toxic chemicals/fumes/waste	The worst thing is that cars give off toxic gases which destroy the ozone layer.
evp	toy	noun	1	A2	an object for children to play with	cuddly/soft toys	She gave me a large soft toy.
evp	trace	verb	1	C1	to find someone or something that was lost	The police are trying to trace the mother of a newborn baby found abandoned outside a hospital.	So you can hire the best people you can find to trace the bad guy and get rid of him.
evp	trace	verb	2	C1	to discover the cause or origin of something	The outbreak of food poisoning was traced to some contaminated shellfish.	It is my firm belief that what is usually referred to as "lacking motivation" can always be traced back to this question of meaning and comradeship.
evp	trace	noun	1	B2	proof that someone or something was in a place	There was no trace of her anywhere.	There were no traces of anything alive nearby.
evp	track	noun	1	B1	a narrow path or road	We followed a dirt track off the main road.	However, on the second day, the sun appeared, and we went o] a mountain track.
evp	track	noun	2	B1	a path, often circular, used for races	a race track	There are 3 football fields, 4 basketball fields, an athletics track, 4 tennis fields, and a bar and changing rooms.
evp	track	noun	3	B2	one song or piece of music on a CD, record, etc.	The album includes four previously unreleased tracks.	It is a really good idea to give every CD a book containing information about every track on the disc and about the performance.
evp	track	noun	4	B2	a sport in which people compete with each other by running a race on a specially prepared circular path	a track event	Since that time I have been reading every article about track and field.
evp	track	noun	5	B2	a mark or line of marks left on the ground or on another surface by an animal, person or vehicle which has moved over it	Police found tire tracks in the mud.	I saw some tracks on the floor. I went to the bedroom and near the bed I saw a big cat with its kittens.
evp	track	noun	6	B2	to not know what is happening to someone or something any more	I've lost track of how much we've spent.	And, do you remember the time we went for a walk and lost track of time?
evp	track	noun	7	C1	the pair of metal lines that a train or tram travels along	train tracks	At the board for departures beside the ticket-machines the destinations and tracks of the trains are indicated.
evp	track	noun	8	C1	making progress and likely to succeed	A fighter from Edinburgh is on track to become world heavyweight boxing champion.	The sales teams are well on track and bringing in new customers every day.
evp	track	noun	9	C1	to continue to know about someone or something	He changes jobs so often I can’t keep track anymore.	Trying to keep track of these changes by translating them would be an inappropriate task.
evp	track	noun	10	C2	in a place where few people go	I prefer to take my vacation somewhere off the beaten track.	Furthermore, in areas off the beaten track, there are not even police sometimes.
evp	track	noun	11	C2	a very quick way of achieving or dealing with something	These intensive courses claim to offer a fast track to wealth and success.	If I ever found a job which lives up to these expectations, I would consider myself on the fast track already.
evp	track	noun	12	C2	the direction in which someone's job or education develops	She was a lawyer, but then she changed track completely and became a doctor.	
evp	track	verb	1	C2	to follow a person or animal by looking for proof that they have been somewhere, or by using electronic equipment	It's difficult to track an animal over stony ground.	It is her eventually who may be considered as the i]nvoluntar cause of Chen's death, by keeping on sending money to China and then allowing the Mafia to track him.
evp	track	verb	2	C2	to record the progress or development of something over a period	The study tracked the careers of 1226 doctors who trained at the University of Michigan Medical School.	However, it would be useless to track the outbreak of wars and to judge humanity for not learning.
evp	track	verb	3	C2	to find someone or something after looking for them in a lot of different places	The man was finally tracked down by French police.	They managed to track him down at the bottom of the cliff, where he had accidentally fallen, but the cliff was too steep for the climbers to go down.
evp	tractor	noun	1	C2	a strong vehicle with large back wheels used on farms for pulling things	He started up the tractor.	Farmers who used to practice traditional farming are now introducing machinery such as tractors.
evp	trade	noun	1	B1	the buying and selling of large numbers of goods or services, especially between countries	The country's trade in manufactured goods has expanded in the last ten years.	You know, I work in a foreign trade company so I have to be well dressed.
evp	trade	noun	2	B2	someone's job, especially one which needs skill in using their hands	He's a builder by trade.	At the age of 15 he left school and started to learn a trade.
evp	trade	noun	3	C1	a particular area of business or industry	the building/book/tourist trade	Having considered the previous factors, I am further convinced that the host country can develop itself rapidly by enhancing the tourist trade.
evp	trade	verb	1	B2	to buy and sell goods or services, especially between countries	For centuries, Native Americans traded with European settlers.	His story is interesting: he first worked in a little shop in Bourges and started trading in France, then in Europe, and in Asia.
evp	trader	noun	1	C2	a person who buys and sells things	His ancestors were fur traders.	After spending a few months over there he got back to Switzerland, where he worked in a private bank as a trader in the bond market.
evp	tradition	noun	1	B2	a custom or way of behaving that has continued for a long time in a group of people or a society	Fireworks have long been an American tradition on the Fourth of July.	Nevertheless, Leipzig has always been an attractive town for tourists, because of its well-known fair and its cultural traditions.
evp	traditional	adjective	1	B1	following the customs or ways of behaving that have continued in a group of people or society for a long time	traditional farming methods	If you come to visit me, I'll invite you to "La Provincana" to have traditional Argentinian food.
evp	traditionally	adverb	1	B2	according to tradition or in a traditional way	Chestnuts are traditionally eaten at Christmas.	You will be able to try our special sausages, produced traditionally in our city!
evp	traffic	noun	1	A2	the cars, trucks, etc. using a road	The traffic is heavy in both directions.	If you want to have a nice time, leave the hotel early in the morning because in this way, you can miss the rush-hour traffic.
evp	traffic	noun	2	C2	the planes or ships moving around an area	air traffic control	We are not asking you to close down the airport but we suggest that you check whether all the charter and freight traffic has to be directed to this airport - there might be an airport in a less densely populated area to use for these purposes.
evp	traffic jam	noun	1	B1	a line of cars, trucks, etc. that are moving slowly or not moving at all	They got stuck in a traffic jam.	Cities are always crowded; there are lots of traffic jams, so they are very polluted.
evp	traffic light	noun	1	A2	a set of red, green, and yellow lights that is used to stop and start traffic	Turn left at the traffic lights.	You walk from your house, and then you turn left at the traffic lights.
evp	tragedy	noun	1	B2	an event or situation which is very sad, often involving death	His life was touched by hardship and personal tragedy.	The people who cause those tragedies are irresponsible drivers.
evp	tragic	adjective	1	B2	very sad, often involving death and suffering	Her tragic death at the age of 36 shocked the world.	For instance, the tragic death of Princess Diana is an example of what a journalist must not do.
evp	tragically	adverb	1	C2	in a way that is very sad	The story ended tragically.	She improved his eyesight and tragically disappeared.
evp	trail	noun	1	B2	a path through the countryside, often made or used for a particular purpose	a mountain/nature trail	After 6 miles of the trail we decided to stop and put our blanket on the ground.
evp	trail	noun	2	C2	the smell or series of marks left by a person, animal, or thing as it moves along	The dogs are specially trained to follow the trail left by the fox.	Azman and I were looking at a trail of fresh blood leading into the woods.
evp	trail	verb	1	C2	to follow or come behind	The sailboats trailed each other across the bay.	In former times . . . Traveling people had the time to adjust themselves to their new surroundings step by step. Nowadays, our body moves quickly, but our soul trails behind.
evp	trail	verb	2	C2	to have a lower score than someone else, especially in a sports event	City were trailing United 1-2 at half time.	They were trailing by four points, but still, they had possession of the ball.
evp	trail	verb	3	C2	to gradually becomes quieter or less in amount	His voice trailed off weakly and we could not hear the rest.	Fred's voice trailed off as he felt his legs give way beneath him.
evp	train	noun	1	A1	a long, thin vehicle which travels along metal tracks and carries people or goods	the train to/from Chicago	The best way to come to my place is to take a train from Weybridge.
evp	train	noun	2	C2	a series of connected thoughts or ideas which come or happen one after the other	I was interrupted and lost my train of thought.	Stevens's ideas on dignity become very clear if we follow his train of thought through the book and if we examine closely the events which encourage him into further discussion of this issue.
evp	train	verb	1	B1	to practice a sport or exercise, often in order to prepare for a sports event, or to help someone to do this	He's been training hard for the race for several weeks now.	She told me that they are training for a tournament which is in about four weeks.
evp	train	verb	2	B2	to teach someone how to do something, usually a skill that is needed for a job	We are training all our staff in how to use the new computer system.	I think I could be suitable for the job because I have some experience of training people.
evp	train	verb	3	B2	to learn the skills you need to do a job	He trained as a lawyer in Vienna.	
evp	trainee	noun	1	C1	someone who is learning how to do something, especially a job	a stockbroker trainee	I work as a trainee at a big international trader company at Brazil, and there we had some problems of motivation in the workplace, and to resolve the problem we made a lot of changes and arrangements in our company.
evp	trainer	noun	1	B1	a person who teaches skills to people or animals and prepares them for a job, activity, or sport	a dog trainer	The trainer is O.K., too, and he told me that I can play in the team in four to five weeks.
evp	training	noun	1	B1	the process of learning the skills you need to do a particular job or activity	a training course	I decided to join the new class because I am taking training in broadcasting now, so I need to improve my English.
evp	training	noun	2	B1	preparation for a sport or competition	football training	After the training, the team invited me to the club party next weekend.
evp	trait	noun	1	C2	a quality, good or bad, in someone's character	a family trait	The latter makes her more sympathetic if anything to a modern reader, but her naivety and weakness for the attention and luxury given by the Nawab are not very likeable traits.
evp	tram	noun	1	A2	an electric vehicle for carrying passengers, mostly in cities, which moves along metal lines in the road	We took the tram to the city centre.	You can get the tram.
evp	tranquil	adjective	1	C1	calm and quiet	a tranquil garden	Unfortunately, though, this tranquil paradise has been destroyed year by year, by the uncontrolled tourism.
evp	tranquility	noun	1	C2	the quality of being tranquil	I love the tranquility of the lake.	Suddenly shattering the tranquility was a high pitched alarm bell being rung energetically.
evp	transaction	noun	1	C1	when someone buys or sells something, or when money is exchanged	a business transaction	This new service guarantees you a quick transaction direct from your home.
evp	transfer	verb	1	B1	to move someone or something from one place to another	He has been transferred to a psychiatric hospital.	The person described himself as a financial officer of a South African government and needs a contact person in Switzerland to transfer the sum of 200 million dollars.
evp	transfer	verb	2	B2	to change to a different job, team, place of work, etc., or to make someone do this	After a year he transferred to Harvard University.	I'm talking about Michael Ballack, who was transferred to the Chelsea soccer team at the beginning of this season.
evp	transfer	noun	1	B2	when something or someone moves or is moved from one place, position, etc. to another	the transfer of information	Most of the transfers are controlled by computers.
evp	transform	verb	1	B2	to change something completely, usually to improve it	Within weeks they had transformed the area into a beautiful garden.	Let[']s transform our town from a dead town made of concrete to a living town full of people and green parks with a lot of space for leisure activities.
evp	transformation	noun	1	C1	a complete change in the appearance or character of something or someone, especially so that they are improved	This plan means a complete transformation of our organization.	As an example I can mention technicians working in the car industry, as well as in the oil industry. These are two of the most important examples that we have and that show us the transformation that the Mexican society has had in the last 20 years.
evp	transition	noun	1	C2	when something changes from one system or method to another, often gradually	The health-care system is in transition at the moment.	The transition from this period into a more independent one is challenging and exciting, both for us and our parents.
evp	transitive	adjective	1	B2	A transitive verb always has an object.	Transitive verbs, such as "put," are marked [T].	
evp	translate	verb	1	B1	to change written or spoken words from one language to another	We were asked to translate a list of sentences.	I was ashamed because I needed someone to translate everything that the people said to me.
evp	translate	verb	2	C2	If an idea or plan translates into an action, it makes it happen.	So how does this theory translate into practical policy?	This translates into more disposable income.
evp	translation	noun	1	B1	something that has been translated from one language to another, or the process of translating	It's a translation from the original Spanish.	We did some translations and wrote a few letters.
evp	transmission	noun	1	C2	the process of broadcasting something on radio, television, etc., or something which is broadcast	radio/satellite transmission	Television channels, for example, can make a profit broadcasting the games and this is usually appreciated by the public, provided that the transmission doesn't last the whole day.
evp	transmission	noun	2	C2	the process of passing something from one person or place to another	There is still a risk of transmission of the virus through infected water.	Moreover she teaches philosophy, [...] and at the same time she works for the society as a whole and contributes to the transmission of knowledge.
evp	transmit	verb	1	C1	to broadcast something, or to send out or carry signals using radio, television, etc.	The station installed a new antenna to transmit a clearer signal throughout the listening area.	I hope that my explanation is thorough enough for you to be reassured, but if you want to know more about this strike and the problems it has caused, I'd suggest that you see the special program about it, which will be transmitted on T.V. next Saturday night.
evp	transmit	verb	2	C2	to pass something from one person or place to another	Cholera is transmitted through contaminated water.	I think that all parents are bound to transmit values to their children; they do so by their own life, their behavior - what they really are - more than by what they say.
evp	transparent	adjective	1	B2	If a substance or object is transparent, you can see through it very clearly.	Grow the bulbs in a transparent plastic box, so the children can see the roots developing.	We loved it there, because the sky was a clear blue and the sea was transparent.
evp	transplant	noun	1	C2	an operation in which a new organ is put into someone's body	a heart/kidney transplant	I was to do a bone-marrow transplant.
evp	transport	noun	1	B2	when people or goods are moved from one place to another	the transport of live animals	In addition to that, a car is more suitable for the transport of goods.
evp	transport	verb	1	B2	to move people or goods from one place to another	The goods are packed in boxes and transported overseas.	At first we chase them in the forests and then put them in small and narrow boxes to be transported to a zoo.
evp	transportation	noun	1	B1	a method or system of travel for getting from one place to another	My car broke down and I don't know what I'll do for transportation tomorrow.	There are also fewer cars than in the city, and you can use animals like donkeys for transportation.
evp	transportation	noun	2	B2	when people or goods are moved from one place to another	transportation costs	Furthermore you can avoid being kept in a traffic jam, reducing the costs of transportation.
evp	trap	noun	1	B2	a piece of equipment for catching animals	a mouse trap	Angel's horse hurt its leg in a trap for foxes.
evp	trap	noun	2	B2	a dangerous or unpleasant situation which is difficult to escape from	The undercover agents went to the house knowing that it might be a trap.	With this trap Miss Marple reveals Dr. Quimper's real motive and has him arrested by the police.
evp	trap	verb	1	B2	If someone or something is trapped, they are unable to move or escape from a place or situation.	The two men died when they were trapped in a burning building.	We had been trapped in the snowy, almost vertical slopes of the "Mont-Blanc de Cheilou" for more than ten hours by then.
evp	trash	noun	1	B1	things that you throw away because you do not want them	a trash can	I opened the gift and put the envelope in the trash.
evp	trauma	noun	1	C2	severe shock caused by an unpleasant experience, or the experience which causes this feeling	the trauma of severe illness	A child who has never experienced security in his family will certainly become an insecure adult, and from a psychological point of view, many of the adults' problems and inhibitions go back to some negative experience or even trauma in infancy and childhood.
evp	traumatic	adjective	1	C2	If an experience is traumatic, it makes you feel very shocked and upset.	His parents split up when he was eight, which he found very traumatic.	Secondly, I have an innate fear of things moving simultaneously at a fast pace, probably enhanced by the traumatic childhood experience.
evp	travel	verb	1	A1	to make a trip	After leaving school, she spent a year traveling, mostly in Africa and Asia.	Alex likes traveling and meeting new people[.] He's always happy to know new friends.
evp	travel	verb	2	B1	to move or go from one place to another	Supersonic planes can travel faster than the speed of sound.	I'm spending a week there and we want to travel a]roun Holland by bicycle.
evp	travel	noun	1	B1	the activity of taking a trip from one place to another	air/space travel	In the travel industry they are looking for Advanced English.
evp	travel	noun	2	C1	the trips someone takes from place to place	I meet all kinds of interesting people on my travels.	During his travels he also tries to learn as much as possible about the local culture.
evp	travel agent	noun	1	B1	someone whose job is making travel arrangements for people	She worked for many years as a travel agent.	I am living with a family in London which the travel agent recommended to me.
evp	traveler	noun	1	B1	someone who travels	This hotel is for serious travelers, rather than tourists on two-week package holidays.	As you must know I am a frequent traveler because of my job and I have many stories regarding my trips.
evp	tray	noun	1	B2	a flat object, usually with raised edges, used for carrying food and drinks	She was carrying a tray of drinks.	Our table had to be cleaned up, so I took a couple of trays, crossed the room and put the trays o]nt a shelf.
evp	treasure	noun	1	B2	very valuable things, usually in the form of a store of precious metals, precious stones or money	Stories about pirates often include a search for buried treasure.	It was said that King Arthur had hidden his treasure in a cave near his castle and he was the only one who knew where it was located.
evp	treasure	noun	2	C2	a very valuable object	art treasures	For all these reasons I believe that certain objects become valuable treasures to us.
evp	treasure	verb	1	C2	If you treasure something, it is very important to you and gives you a lot of pleasure.	I shall treasure those memories of her.	Restlessness and creativity, physical and spiritual health, falling in love and receiving love can offer such moments, which a person could treasure for the rest of his or her life.
evp	treat	verb	1	B2	to behave toward or deal with someone in a particular way	My parents treated us all the same when we were kids.	I'll treat them like my own son and daughter.
evp	treat	verb	2	B2	to give medical care to someone for an illness or injury	He is being treated for a rare skin disease.	I have also worked for the "Red Cross" so I know how to treat injuries, if someone gets hurt.
evp	treat	verb	3	B2	to consider something in a particular way	He treated my suggestion as a joke.	It was a horrible experience, believe me, but now we treat it as an adventure.
evp	treat	verb	4	B2	to do or buy something special for someone	I’m going to treat myself to a new pair of sunglasses.	There is one nice pub, of course I'll treat you!
evp	treat	noun	1	C2	something special which you buy or do for someone else or for yourself	a birthday treat	An orange or a banana was a wonderful treat.
evp	treatment	noun	1	B2	the use of drugs, exercises, etc. to cure a person of an illness or injury	free dental treatment	For instance, if I had a child who needed special medical treatment and I was rich then it would make me very happy to be able to pay for an expensive operation and to see my child growing up.
evp	treatment	noun	2	B2	the way you deal with or behave toward someone or something	There have been complaints about the treatment of prisoners.	My pet doesn't need special treatment. All it needs is care and love.
evp	treaty	noun	1	C2	a written agreement between two or more countries	a peace treaty	It contained historical documents, and one of them was particularly important: a treaty between England and Germany in the 1930s.
evp	tree	noun	1	A1	a tall plant with a thick stem which has branches coming from it and leaves	an apple tree	When I see a tree or flower and happy people, I have a good feeling.
evp	trek	noun	1	C1	a long, difficult journey that you make by walking	They started out on the long trek across the mountains.	SPECIAL ACTIVITIES include a trek through a dense forest and then climbing a hill which is a unique experience for everyone. For the bolder there is something more extreme.
evp	trekking	noun	1	B2	when you go on a long, difficult trip on foot	We want to go trekking in the Himalayas.	I hear she's going to Africa for some trekking.
evp	tremble	verb	1	B2	to shake slightly, usually because you are cold, frightened, or very emotional	When he came out of the water, he was trembling with cold.	It was Tuesday the 13th and the fact that I was very superstitious made me tremble with fear.
evp	tremendous	adjective	1	B2	extremely good	I think she's doing a tremendous job.	I think it would be a tremendous idea to work with you.
evp	tremendous	adjective	2	B2	very large, great, strong, etc.	a tremendous amount of money	I think I certainly could live without watching television for a week, but it would put a tremendous strain on my everyday life.
evp	tremendously	adverb	1	B2	very or very much	They've worked tremendously hard.	I enjoyed it tremendously.
evp	trend	noun	1	B1	a general development or change in a situation or in the way that people are behaving	I'm not familiar with the latest trends in teaching methodology.	So the most important thing about shopping is that you can talk about the lat]es news with your friend and look for the newest trends.
evp	trial	noun	1	B2	a legal process to decide if someone is guilty of a crime	The two men are now on trial for attempted murder.	The trial was long and had wide coverage in the media.
evp	trial	noun	2	C1	a test of something new to find out if it is safe, works correctly, etc.	They're doing clinical trials on a new drug.	At the moment we have a special offer which is a free three-month trial period, so you can have an idea of how the Club works.
evp	trial	noun	3	C2	a way of learning the best way to do something by trying different methods	There aren't any instructions with it - it's just a matter of trial and error.	If you don't know the past, you're liable to live through it again as instead of deriving the lessons from someone else's experiences, you'll have to learn them the hard way, by trial and error.
evp	trial	noun	4	C2	If someone stands trial, they appear in a law court where people decide if they are guilty of a crime.	Berenson will stand trial next month in the county court.	He was going there in order to arrest Christians and bring them to Jerusalem to stand trial for their treason.
evp	triangle	noun	1	B2	a flat shape with three straight sides	an equilateral triangle	On the right, two cherry trees and an apple tree are placed in the shape of a triangle.
evp	tribal	adjective	1	C2	relating to a tribe	tribal dress/leaders	It magnificently establishes a parallel between the tragic demise of an outstanding Ibo man named Okonkwo and the cultural as well as religious downfall of his entire clan and generally the disintegration of African tribal life.
evp	tribe	noun	1	B2	a group of people who live together, usually in areas far away from cities, and who share the same culture and language and still have a traditional way of life	a tribe of Amazonian Indians	Then I went South to Mali and visited the Dagan tribe whose mythology and rituals interest me a great deal.
evp	tribute	noun	1	C2	something which you do or say to show that you respect and admire someone, especially in a formal situation	Tributes have been pouring in from all over the world for Michael Jackson, who died yesterday.	The only thing she insisted on, over the telephone, was that Newton's "Amazing Gra[c]e" should be sung as her last personal tribute to her mother.
evp	tribute	noun	2	C2	to thank someone or say that you admire someone or something, especially in public	He paid tribute to his former teacher.	Although it may not seem so] this is just a way of paying tribute to Mahatma Gand[h]i, since he always encouraged people to return to their traditions and customs.
evp	trick	noun	1	B1	something you do to deceive or cheat someone, or to make someone look stupid as a joke	She played a really nasty trick on me - she put syrup in my shampoo bottle!	At my first lesson, Jim decided to play a trick on us!
evp	trick	noun	2	B1	something that is done to entertain people and that seems to be magic	a card trick	She did some magic tricks.
evp	trick	noun	3	B2	an effective or quick way of doing something	What's the trick to getting this chair to fold up?	I like all kinds of sports: swimming, volleyball, football, bowling, golf, and so on. I hope that by joining your club I will learn all the rules and tricks of these sports.
evp	trick	noun	4	C2	If something does the trick, it solves a problem or has the result you want.	If you have a headache, an aspirin will usually do the trick.	Using aromatherapy oil and scented candles always did the trick when she wanted to relax.
evp	trick	verb	1	B2	to deceive someone	They tricked him into signing the papers.	After they explained everything to him, he then knew he was being tricked by them.
evp	tricky	adjective	1	B2	difficult to deal with or do	Those bird models are quite tricky to make, aren't they?	I think Chris is more sensitive than you and she has taken into account how tricky that route could turn out to be]
evp	trigger	verb	1	C1	to make something begin to happen	Some people find that certain foods trigger their headaches.	Motivation is triggered and influenced by many factors.
evp	trilogy	noun	1	C2	a series of three books, plays, movies, etc. with the same characters or subject	This is the first in his trilogy about India.	The Terminator trilogy might be one of the most obvious examples, where machines evolve beyond our control and nearly exterminate all human beings.
evp	trio	noun	1	C2	a group of three things or people, especially three musicians who play together	Many jazz trios consist of a piano, guitar and double bass.	The rest of the evening saw a few other music students showing off their potential and it ended with an unplugged title sung by a trio composed of female singers.
evp	trip	noun	1	A2	an occasion when you go to a place for a short time and come back again	a camping/shopping trip	So have a nice time on your trip.
evp	trip	verb	1	B2	to fall or almost fall because you hit your foot on something when you are walking or running	She nearly tripped on the rug.	We got in the house and it was so dark in there that I couldn't see anything. Then I tripped over a box, I believe.
evp	triumph	noun	1	C1	an important success, achievement, or victory	When it was first built, the bridge was hailed as a triumph of engineering.	In addition to this, the dinner we had on Monday afternoon was a triumph.
evp	triumph	noun	2	C2	the feeling of happiness that you have when you win something or succeed	They couldn't conceal their triumph at the result.	He said to himself " 'Yes, it was me, it was because of me' and a spurt of triumph went through him."
evp	trivial	adjective	1	B2	small and not important	It's a fairly trivial offense.	All this may seem trivial and unimportant to an ordinary man addicted to his TV set.
evp	troops	noun	1	C2	soldiers on duty in a large group	The major powers have said they will not send in ground
troops.	They died almost at the end of the war, when the Russian troops were already in Berlin.
evp	trophy	noun	1	B2	a prize, such as a silver cup, that you get for winning a race or competition	He's an excellent pool player, but he's never won a major trophy.	[Whoever] can make their gardens beautiful will get to keep the trophy.
evp	tropical	adjective	1	B2	from or in the hottest parts of the world	a tropical island/region/climate	There were special tropical flowers from Brazil and East Asia.
evp	trouble	noun	1	B1	problems, difficulties, or worries	Parents often have trouble finding restaurants that welcome young children.	I've decided to take this class because I felt I had some trouble spelling words.
evp	trouble	noun	2	B1	when you have done something wrong and are likely to be punished	Her children are always in trouble.	Telling the truth keeps me out of trouble.
evp	trouble	noun	3	B2	when you use extra time or energy to do something	He took the trouble to write to each of them personally.	I hope it's not too much trouble and I swear I will not break anything again.
evp	trouble	noun	4	B2	a difficult, unpleasant or dangerous situation	The company was in serious trouble with massive debts.	She opened her eyes and saw that she was in serious trouble because it was much too late.
evp	trouble	noun	5	B2	used to say what is wrong with someone or something	The trouble with a white floor is that it gets dirty so quickly.	In fact he thought that the trouble with going by bicycle is that you are always late if you live far from school.
evp	trouble	noun	6	B2	a situation in which people are fighting or arguing	The trouble started after a group of drunken football fans started to throw bottles.	When we arrived, there had been two men eating on the table just next to us, but they had disappeared when the trouble started.
evp	trouble	noun	7	C2	a problem that you have with a machine or part of your body	The plane developed engine trouble shortly after takeoff.	This was clearly demonstrated by the incident a few weeks ago when one aircraft had engine trouble just over our area and barely managed to get to the airport in time for landing.
evp	troubled	adjective	1	C1	having problems or difficulties	a troubled expression	But you realize how much you can cope with if only you help each other and stick together in troubled times.
evp	troublesome	adjective	1	C2	causing a lot of problems, especially over a long period of time	a troublesome knee injury	This is normal for people who tend to work abroad - they are aware of the dangers and they can protect themselves from troublesome situations.
evp	trousers	noun	1	C2	a piece of clothing that covers the legs and has a separate part for each leg	I need a new pair of trousers to go with this jacket.	I will wear a long shirt and trousers.
evp	truck	noun	1	B1	a large road vehicle for carrying goods from place to place	The road was completely blocked by an overturned truck.	My bedroom has drawings of trucks and motorbikes.
evp	true	adjective	1	A2	based on facts and not imagined	The film is based on a true story.	Yes, It's true I bought it on Saturday.
evp	true	adjective	2	B1	real	true love	The film we saw was so nice. It was about true friends.
evp	true	adjective	3	B1	If a dream or hope comes true, it really happens.	I'd always dreamed of owning my own house, but I never thought it would come true.	I had been dreaming of going to London since I started learning English, and now that my dream had come true, I was overhelmed by joy and feeling very lucky.
evp	true	adjective	4	C2	sincere or loyal, and likely to continue to be so even in a difficult situation	I am lucky to have true friends.	There are those who remain true to every sport's true goals, the pursuit of excellence in whatever sports one competes in.
evp	trumpet	noun	1	B1	a metal musical instrument that you play by blowing into it and pressing buttons to make different notes	Liz used to play the trumpet.	I play the guitar and John plays the trumpet.
evp	trunk	noun	1	B1	a closed space at the back of a car for putting things in	I'll put your luggage in the trunk.	In the morning of the first day while I was putting my fishing set into the trunk of my car I saw one of my missing lures.
evp	trunk	noun	2	B2	the thick stem of a tree that the branches grow from	The trunks of these trees can be more than two meters wide.	
evp	trust	verb	1	B1	to believe that someone is good and honest and will not harm you, or that something is safe and reliable	My sister warned me not to trust him.	Do not trust him and be careful.
evp	trust	verb	2	C1	used to say that you hope something is true	I trust you slept well?	I trust that the suggestions outlined in this report will receive your serious consideration and meet with your approval.
evp	trust	noun	1	B2	the belief that you can trust someone or something	a relationship based on trust and understanding	Now the trial is starting and, as a result, I have lost trust in my friends.
evp	trustworthy	adjective	1	C1	Someone who is trustworthy can be trusted.	Bob assured me she was completely trustworthy.	In addition to aforementioned character traits, John could be best described as a conscientious, imaginative, creative, sensible and trustworthy man.
evp	try	verb	1	A2	to attempt to do something	I tried to open the window but I couldn't.	I don't have so much time but I will try to come to a meeting for a few hours.
evp	try	verb	2	B1	to do, test, taste, etc., something to discover if it works or if you like it	I tried that recipe you gave me last night.	You should try Hungarian food.
evp	try	verb	3	C2	to examine facts in a court of law to decide if someone is guilty of a crime	He was tried for fraud.	I switched on the TV: unemployment had risen again and a politician was being tried for corruption. I switched it off.
evp	try	verb	4	A2	to put on a piece of clothing to discover if it fits you or if you like it	I'd like to try this dress on.	I love to shop, to try on new clothes and decide what I'll buy.
evp	try	verb	5	B2	to use something to discover if it works or if you like it	Why don't you try out your new racket?	Moreover we have a riding school for those that want to try out this experience.
evp	try	noun	1	B2	an attempt to do something	I decided to give skiing a try.	I can assure that you will like it, so give it a try.
evp	T-shirt	noun	1	A1	a piece of cotton clothing for the top part of the body with short sleeves and no collar	She was wearing jeans and a T-shirt.	I am looking for a new T-shirt, jeans, a dress, and shoes.
evp	tube	noun	1	B1	a long, thin container for a soft substance, that you press to get the substance out	a tube of toothpaste	
evp	tube	noun	2	B2	a pipe made of glass, plastic, metal, etc., especially for liquids or gases to flow through	Gases produced in the reaction pass through this tube and can then be collected.	I threw the tube into the river.
evp	Tuesday	noun	1	A1	the day of the week after Monday and before Wednesday	We'll meet at eight on Tuesday.	On Tuesday, Thursday and Friday I have French and physics.
evp	tuition	noun	1	C1	money that you pay for being taught, especially at a college or university	The tuition and fees are billed at the beginning of each semester.	Their parents might have a hard time bringing them up, paying their tuition and living costs.
evp	tuna	noun	1	B1	a large sea fish, or the meat from this fish	I had a tuna sandwich for lunch.	I'll make tuna with tomatoes, it's delicious.
evp	tune	noun	1	C1	a series of musical notes that are pleasant to listen to	That's a very catchy tune.	The song has a slow tune and the singer performs in a way that reveals his thoughts and his anxiety.
evp	tune	noun	2	C1	singing or playing the wrong notes	The piano is out of tune.	Even if you sing out of tune please call us.
evp	tune	noun	3	C1	singing or playing the right notes	Try to stay in tune.	The public was singing in tune with Jag, hands were raised and bodies were slowly sway]ing
evp	tune	noun	4	C2	to understand what someone wants or needs or to understand a situation and act in a way that is suitable for it	The congress is not in tune with the voters.	I am not exactly in tune with all the latest trends but I know which styles give me the most satisfaction.
evp	tunnel	noun	1	B1	a long passage under the ground or through a mountain	The train went into the tunnel.	Unfortunately, the tunnel was closed so I just had to continue walking on the pathway.
evp	turbulent	adjective	1	C2	A turbulent situation, time, etc. is one in which there are a lot of sudden changes, arguments, or violence.	a turbulent relationship	We live in a turbulent time and people do not always have enough peace in their minds to question things.
evp	turkey	noun	1	B1	a bird that looks like a large chicken, or the meat of this bird	We had turkey for dinner.	I asked for a turkey pie but they gave me a beef pie, so they changed it for me.
evp	turmoil	noun	1	C2	a situation in which there is a lot of trouble, confusion, or noise	The whole region is in turmoil.	Therefore, she finds herself in a state of confusion] as her feelings are in turmoil.
evp	turn	verb	1	A2	to change the direction in which you are moving, or to make a car do this	Turn left at the traffic lights.	Go up the street and turn left on the square.
evp	turn	verb	2	B1	to move your body so that you are facing a different direction	Ricky turned and saw Sue standing in the doorway.	As the concert finished, I heard someone call my name and I turned around.
evp	turn	verb	3	B1	to move something around so that it faces a different direction	Ella turned the cup to hide the crack in it.	I turned it over in my hands and looked at it quite carefully.
evp	turn	verb	4	B1	to move a page in a book or magazine in order to see the next one	Now turn the page, please, and start Exercise 2.	Television helps a lot to make our life easier. But, where is the poetry of handling a book? Yes, there is a lot of poetry, first you handle it, you turn the pages, second you can read any passage, where and when you want.
evp	turn	verb	5	B2	to move around a central point in a circle, or to make something do this	Turn the steering wheel as quickly as you can.	It's not like sitting on a bike and just turning the pedals, in this case you work only your legs.
evp	turn	verb	6	B2	to become blue, cold, nasty, etc.	The sky turned black and it started to rain.	His friends began to laugh and my face turned red.
evp	turn	verb	7	C1	to become a particular age	He turned 18 last May.	One of the best things when you turn 17 in Britain is that you can start to take driving lessons.
evp	turn	verb	8	C2	to decide to stop having contact with someone or something, or to refuse to help someone	She turned her back on Hollywood and went to live in Florida.	She gets to learn that Olivia turned her back on her past and merged totally with India through her attraction to and sympathy for the Nawab.
evp	turn	verb	9	C2	to start to behave in a better way	I turned over a new leaf and began getting to work on time.	She promised to turn over a new leaf.
evp	turn	verb	10	C2	to not accept something because you do not think it is good enough for you	She turned up her nose at the job because she didn’t think it had enough status.	Moreover, she will not turn her nose up at anybody who might be considered less worthy than her.
evp	turn	verb	11	C2	be unable to sleep properly	I was tossing and turning for most of the night.	As she tossed and turned, unable to sleep, she started going over the events that had taken place before that evening.
evp	turn	verb	12	B2	to return in the direction you have come from, or to make someone do this	They had to turn back because of the bad weather.	As we were walking along we came across a river we couldn't pass, so we turned back.
evp	turn	verb	13	B1	to reduce the level of sound or heat that something produces	I asked him to turn down the heat.	Actually, as I know nothing about instruments, the only thing I could do was just turn the volume up and down.
evp	turn	verb	14	B2	to refuse an offer or request	He offered her a trip to Australia but she turned it/him down.	I hope you don't turn down my invitation.
evp	turn	verb	15	B1	to change and become someone or something different, or to make someone or something do this	The council was hoping to turn a children's home into a residence for adolescent girls.	After midnight it turns into a club where you can dance to any kind of music.
evp	turn	verb	16	A2	to move the switch on a machine, light, etc. so that it stops working, or to stop the supply of water, electricity, etc.	Have you turned the computer off?	He turned the TV off and started thinking about Tania.
evp	turn	verb	17	A2	to move the switch on a machine, light, etc. so that it starts working, or to start the supply of water, electricity, etc.	Ben turned the TV on.	I turned the computer on to check my e-mail box.
evp	turn	verb	18	B2	to happen in a particular way or to have a particular result, especially an unexpected one	The bomb warning turned out to be a false alarm.	It was a very strange situation but turned out to be a good experience because we got know each other because of it.
evp	turn	verb	19	B2	to be known or discovered finally and surprisingly	It turned out that we'd been to the same school.	It turned out that Corey was organizing the concert and he asked me and three of my friends if we wanted to help.
evp	turn	verb	20	B2	If people turn out for an event, they go there.	Thousands of people turned out to welcome the team home.	On top of that, there were more than 5,000 people who had turned out for the festival!
evp	turn	verb	21	B2	to ask a person or organization for help or support	Eventually she turned to her aunt for help.	People were very friendly and there was always someone to turn to in case of trouble.
evp	turn	verb	22	B2	to arrive or appear somewhere	Do you think many people will turn up?	A few minutes later two security men turned up.
evp	turn	verb	23	B1	to increase the level of sound or heat that a machine produces	Could you turn the heat up, please?	But on the other hand they too do never turn their music up too much.
evp	turn	noun	1	B1	the time when you can or must do something, usually before or after someone else	Is it my turn yet?	I really enjoyed the holidays in England with you, so now it's my turn to invite you to come to my country, Peru.
evp	turn	noun	2	B2	a change in the direction in which you are moving or facing	a left/right turn	You need to take a right turn on the Main Street and walk toward the Public library.
evp	turn	noun	3	B2	When a number of people take turns, they do the same thing one after the other.	We take turns to answer the phone.	I suggest that each family takes turns to cut the grass once a week.
evp	turn	noun	4	C1	as a result of something that is part of a series of events	This could result in the loss of certain species of fish and this in turn poses a serious threat to the fishing communities along the river banks.	This, in turn, enabled them to find jobs and become financially independent from their husbands.
evp	turn	noun	5	C1	one after the other in an agreed order	She spoke to each of the guests in turn.	We had two different teachers in the mornings and in the afternoons, in turn.
evp	turn	noun	6	C1	a corner where one street meets another	Take the first turn on the left.	All you have to do now is to take the first turn on the left and after another 100 yards you will see the big building of a bank and I live right opposite.
evp	turn	noun	7	C2	to become better or worse suddenly	The weather took a turn for the better.	Despite all the environmental problems it is up to us to prevent things from taking a turn for the worse.
evp	turn	noun	8	C2	the start of a new century	He was born at the turn of the century.	
evp	turn	noun	9	C2	the way in which a situation develops, especially a sudden or unexpected change	We were all shocked by this tragic turn of events.	She was not prepared for such an unexpected turn of events!
evp	tutor	noun	1	B2	someone who teaches one person or a very small group of people	a private tutor	Moreover, I worked in a kindergarden for two months and I was a tutor in a youth group for approximatly five years.
evp	TV	noun	1	A1	television	What's on TV tonight?	She watches TV every evening.
evp	twelve	noun	1	A1	the number 12	ten, eleven, twelve, thirteen	We can start at twelve o'clock.
evp	twenty	noun	1	A1	the number 20	nineteen, twenty, twenty-one	I think we were twenty people.
evp	twenty	noun	2	B2	to be aged between 20 and 29	Most of the staff are in their twenties.	Teenagers and people in their twenties will enjoy themselves in the atmosphere of the rock-café.
evp	twenty	noun	3	B2	the years 1920 through 1929	I love the fashions of the twenties.	You can find the car that won the first car race in the world, and lost movies from the twenties.
evp	twice	adverb	1	A2	two times	I've already asked him twice.	I can write twice a week.
evp	twice	adverb	2	C1	to carefully consider whether what you are planning is a good idea	I'd think twice about spending so much money on one thing, if I were you.	Now I will think twice before I buy your paper again.
evp	twice	adverb	3	C1	to do something immediately, without considering whether it is a good idea	When he asked me out, I didn't think twice!	Your advertisement seemed very convincing and as I intended to travel to exotic locations I did not think twice.
evp	twin	noun	1	B1	one of two children who are born to the same mother at the same time	My sister has twin sons.	I have twin cousins there and I love them very much.
evp	twist	verb	1	C1	If you twist a part of your body, you injure it by turning it suddenly.	I tripped and twisted my ankle.	The worst part is, that we had an older lady within our group who had twisted her ankle so she was somewhat disabled at the time.
evp	twist	verb	2	C2	to turn something in a circle using your hand	She sat there nervously twisting the ring around on her finger.	
evp	twist	verb	3	C2	to turn part of your body to face a different direction	She twisted around so she could see what was happening.	Through the right side of the car I could see his eyes glitter like two flawless diamonds as he twisted his neck slightly from time to time to beam at me.
evp	twist	verb	4	C2	to change the meaning of something so that it fits what you want it to mean	You keep twisting my words - that's not what I meant at all!	Some members of the board twisted her words.
evp	twist	noun	1	C1	an unexpected change in a situation or in a story	His promotion was just the latest twist in the story of his life.	The plot takes several twists and turns till the conclusion which sums up the contents of the film.
evp	two	noun	1	A1	the number 2	They've got two houses.	I go to college two days per week.
evp	two	noun	2	B1	used to indicate a very small number, often no more than two	We will spend a day or two in Boston.	The thing you can do, is go out with your family first and than with your friends, or, you can ask your parents, if you can invite a friend or two to go with you.
evp	two	noun	3	C1	to have difficulty making a decision	I was of two minds about whether to invite him to the wedding.	
evp	type	noun	1	A2	a person or thing that is part of a group of people or things that have similar qualities, or a group of people or things that have similar qualities	What type of house do they live in?	Well, I think rock is the best type of music that we can put in the concert.
evp	type	noun	2	C1	someone who has particular qualities or interests	I can't quit now - I'm not that type of person.	Usually these adults are the hardworking type and save money for the future.
evp	type	noun	3	C2	the kind of person you find likable or attractive	Grant’s the type of guy I like – strong and cool – but Willie’s not my type at all.	It's true that he wasn't handsome, not at all the type she had used to prefer, but when he smiled, that wonderful smile that made his eyes sparkle, she realized, quite dazzled, that he was beautiful.
evp	type	verb	1	B1	to write something using a keyboard	She asked me to type a couple of letters.	I'm typing this email to ask your permission to borrow your bicycle.
evp	type	verb	2	B1	to use the keys on a computer or other device to enter information	How can I type in my password if I can’t remember it?	Unfortun[a]t[e]ly the phone was locked, so you had to type in a password to use the phone.
evp	typical	adjective	1	B1	having all the qualities you expect a particular person, object, place, etc. to have	I must look like the typical tourist with my shorts and my camera.	If you want to go out at night there are good options for entertainment[,] for instance typical music shows.
evp	typically	adverb	1	B1	used for saying what usually happens	Typically, a doctor will see about thirty patients a day.	The climate of Brazil is typically tropical so the weather is gorgeous.
evp	typically	adverb	2	B2	in a way that shows all the characteristics that you would expect from the stated person, thing or group	She has that reserve and slight coldness of manner which is typically English.	Your wife really made an effort to cook me typically English dishes.
evp	ugly	adjective	1	B1	unpleasant to look at	an ugly building/city	There are lots of trees and bushes, and lots of fresh air, but the city itself is quite ugly.
evp	ugly	adjective	2	C2	An ugly situation is very unpleasant, usually because it involves violence.	There were ugly scenes outside the stadium.	Just think about the ugly situation of being in a fully-booked hotel and then the staff goes on strike.
evp	ultimate	adjective	1	B2	better, greater or worse than all similar things	Climbing Mount Everest is the ultimate challenge.	Being on the road is always better than the arrival, so this journey would be the ultimate journey for me as well.
evp	ultimate	adjective	2	C1	final or most important	the ultimate aim/goal	But, for me, the ultimate thrill would be the fact that people would use the software that I had made.
evp	ultimately	adverb	1	C1	finally, after a series of things have happened	Everything will ultimately depend on what is said at the meeting with the directors next week.	Ultimately, it leads to a lot of diseases and early death.
evp	ultimately	adverb	2	C2	used to emphasize the most important fact in a situation	Ultimately, he'll have to decide.	Ultimately, that is why we are influenced by other people's personalities.
evp	umbrella	noun	1	A2	a thing that you hold above your head to keep yourself dry when it is raining	I felt a few spots of rain so I put my umbrella up.	I got some books, a bottle of wine and an umbrella.
evp	unacceptable	adjective	1	B2	too bad to be allowed to continue	The water contains unacceptable levels of pollution.	So I waited for 45 minutes until the show started. [T]hat is an unacceptable delay.
evp	unaffected	adjective	1	C2	not changed by something	Smaller colleges will be unaffected by the new regulations.	Only a genius could stay unaffected by such idolatry.
evp	unaffordable	adjective	1	C1	too expensive for people to be able to buy	Such clothes are unaffordable for most people.	Regarding the gift shop, most of the students admit that there was most interesting technology in there, but on the other hand the things offered were unaffordable for us.
evp	unanimous	adjective	1	C2	agreed by everyone	The jury was unanimous in finding him guilty.	Having spoken to neighbors, we reached a unanimous decision that the route of the aircraft should be changed immediately so that they no longer disrupt our lives.
evp	unanimously	adverb	1	C2	with agreement from everyone	We agreed unanimously that he was the best candidate.	While it is true that there are quite a few opposing theories about losing weight, doctors unanimously agree that a hedonistic approach to eating can lead to unpleasant health issues like obesity.
evp	unattainable	adjective	1	C2	not able to be achieved	an unattainable ideal	The ability to permanently record thought opened new dimensions to fields like philosophy, poetry and literature, enabling them to reach a degree of complexity, creativity and longevity unattainable by previous technologies.
evp	unattractive	adjective	1	B2	not beautiful or pleasant to look at	I felt old and unattractive.	This information is useful for a person who thinks his/her body is unattractive.
evp	unattractive	adjective	2	C1	not interesting or useful	an unattractive proposition	In our opinion, despite the friendly atmosphere of our club's meetings we find them very unattractive and rather "dull."
evp	unavailable	adjective	1	B2	impossible to buy or get	The book is unavailable until January.	The third point was that the discounted tickets were unavailable.
evp	unavailable	adjective	2	C1	not able to talk to someone or meet them, especially because you are doing other things	The manager was unavailable for comment.	Furthermore, a role-model for the younger generation could be the famous tennis player Joe Hill, who unfortunately is unavailable to give an interview.
evp	unavoidable	adjective	1	C1	impossible to avoid or prevent	an unavoidable delay	Being aware of the two proposals our local government is considering in order to solve the apparently unavoidable matter of traffic in our beloved city, I feel compelled to offer my views on such a delicate subject.
evp	unavoidably	adverb	1	C2	in a way that could not be avoided or prevented	She was unavoidably delayed.	Some people believe that thinking about poor consequences can unavoidably lead to them.
evp	unaware	adjective	1	B2	not knowing about something	He was unaware that the police were watching him.	Although you may be an expert in one subject you can be unaware of some basics in others.
evp	unbalanced	adjective	1	C2	slightly mentally ill	After his death, she became slightly unbalanced.	Many homeless people are mentally unbalanced, some are addicted to chemical substances.
evp	unbalanced	adjective	2	C2	false and not fair	He gave an unbalanced view of the situation.	I think that if a school measures a child solely by his or her academic success, it will be an unbalanced and narrow-minded method to measure a child and his or her ability as a whole person.
evp	unbearable	adjective	1	B2	too painful or unpleasant for you to continue to experience	The heat was almost unbearable.	Life can be very difficult, almost unbearable sometimes.
evp	unbelievable	adjective	1	B1	extremely bad or good and making you feel surprised	It's unbelievable how lucky she's been.	The food is unbelievable and I'm sure you'll love it.
evp	unbelievable	adjective	2	B2	not probable and difficult to believe	I found most of the characters in the play totally unbelievable.	They made up unbelievable stories which almost made them cry in the end.
evp	unbiased	adjective	1	C2	able to judge fairly because you are not influenced by your own opinions	He was able to give me some unbiased advice.	If you take into consideration only certain subjects, you are likely to end up despising other fields of knowledge, whereas the main point of education is to give an unbiased view of our own and foreign cultures.
evp	uncertain	adjective	1	B2	not sure or not able to decide about something	He's uncertain whether to go to graduate school or not.	[There are things that I am uncertain about, and that I would be grateful if you could explain.
evp	uncertain	adjective	2	B2	not known or fixed, or not completely certain	New arrivals face an uncertain future.	Please do not bother posting them since we do not have a zip code where I live, and they might get lost with our uncertain Post Service.
evp	uncertain	adjective	3	C2	in a direct and often angry way	I told him to go away in no uncertain terms.	Intellectuals are used to saying in no uncertain terms that money represents the bad side of the sport.
evp	uncertainty	noun	1	C1	the state of being uncertain	There was a lot of uncertainty about whether or not he would attend the event.	The shortages of almost everything we have to face and cope with have made our lives full of uncertainty and helplessness, but on the other hand they released in some Poles enormous energy, in the effort to support their families and provide them with food, clothing and fuel.
evp	unchanged	adjective	1	B2	staying the same	The area has remained virtually unchanged in fifty years.	All the big and small things which define people's personal environment will be left nearly unchanged - the furniture, the pictures on the wall.... I suppose our future homes will be a mix of new technologies and good old tradition.
evp	uncle	noun	1	A2	the brother of your mother or father, or the husband of your aunt	I have an uncle who lives there.	My uncle gave me the best present.
evp	unclear	adjective	1	B2	not easy to understand	The situation at the moment is unclear.	If something is unclear please give me a call.
evp	unclear	adjective	2	B2	If you are unclear about something, you are not certain about it.	I'm unclear about a couple of points in your proposal - could you go over them again?	
evp	uncomfortable	adjective	1	B1	not feeling comfortable and pleasant, or not making you feel comfortable and pleasant	I've eaten so much, I'm really uncomfortable.	The things I most hate wearing are shirts, I think they're very uncomfortable.
evp	uncomfortable	adjective	2	C1	slightly embarrassed, or making you feel slightly embarrassed	an uncomfortable silence	It is interesting how people get embarrassed and uncomfortable when they have to face an English speech.
evp	uncomfortably	adverb	1	C1	in a way that is not comfortable or pleasant	I was warm but not uncomfortably so.	I saw faces I see every day, but in uncomfortably long dresses and with starched white collars, I saw their effort to look nice, attractive and not to disturb the rules set by the society of their time.
evp	uncommon	adjective	1	C1	unusual	It's not uncommon for people to become ill when they travel.	NEW TRENDS: Vegetarian food is not uncommon nowadays.
evp	unconditional	adjective	1	C2	done or given without any limits and without asking for anything for yourself	unconditional love	But I am of the firm conviction that you cannot love a child too much, and this unconditional love does not include any rod, in both the literal and figurative sense of the word.
evp	unconscious	adjective	1	B2	in a state as though you are sleeping, for example because you have been hit on the head	An explosion knocked him unconscious.	In the morning, Mrs Crozier went to visit Miss Appleford in number 42 only to find her lying on the floor unconscious.
evp	unconscious	adjective	2	C2	An unconscious thought or feeling is one that you are not aware that you have.	an unconscious fear	Maybe it was her strict upbringing that had left her with an unconscious need to rebel, and that in turn caused her to be drawn to this rowdy young man.
evp	unconsciously	adverb	1	C2	If you do something unconsciously, you do it without knowing that you are doing it.	She was nodding her head, unconsciously urging him on.	This is so because every human unconsciously chooses clothes that correspond to their approach to life.
evp	unconventional	adjective	1	C1	doing things in a way that is different from most people	an unconventional lifestyle	CHILDREN'S STORIES This event was successful and satisfied the kids since the heroes were exhilarating, with amazingly unconventional behavior.
evp	uncountable noun	noun	1	B1	a noun that does not have a plural form and cannot be used with "a" or "one"	"Information" and "furniture" are uncountable nouns.	
evp	uncover	verb	1	C1	to discover something that had been secret or hidden	The inspectors uncovered evidence of corruption.	Sitting in a restaurant and discussing provisions of the contract you will find much easier and feel happier than just sitting and looking at an enormous number of clauses, trying unsuccessfuly to uncover what your client really thought when he wrote this or that.
evp	undeniable	adjective	1	C1	certainly true	an undeniable fact	It is undeniable that he has made a positive contribution to the history of my country.
evp	undeniably	adverb	1	C2	in a way that is almost certainly true	He is undeniably the best student we have ever had.	Of course, it will undeniably involve some substantial initial expenditure for opening a cafeteria, but the final result will definitely offset this.
evp	underdeveloped	adjective	1	C2	not having an advanced level of technology or industry	They are working in underdeveloped parts of the city.	A shift of focus in underdeveloped and developing states' economic and social policies is vital to overcoming the problems which cause homelessness.
evp	underestimate	verb	1	B2	to fail to understand how large, strong, or important something is	Many people underestimate the cost of owning a car.	The report also seemed to underestimate the number of people that had attended.
evp	underestimate	verb	2	C1	to not understand how powerful, smart, or skilled someone is	I thought it would be an easy game but I had underestimated my opponent.	At the beginning she will ask you many questions about yourself. But don't underestimate Ms. Bates (that's her name).
evp	undergo	verb	1	C1	to experience something, especially a change or medical treatment	The country is currently undergoing major political change.	Nowadays, my country is undergoing a very difficult financial and social situation.
evp	underline	verb	1	B1	to draw a line under a word or sentence, especially in order to show its importance	All the technical words have been underlined in red.	And, another disadvantage in my opinion is that is more difficult to underline or to write some notes if you study from the computer.
evp	underline	verb	2	B2	to emphasize the truth or importance of something	The report underlines the need for more teachers in schools.	It is true that museums do not show the past as well as they could, but we must underline that they are always good enough if we are really interested in knowing about our past.
evp	underlying	adjective	1	C2	An underlying reason or problem is the real reason or problem, although it is not obvious.	We need to look at the underlying reasons for ill health.	The underlying reason is of course a lurking threat of death and decay, which keeps scientists investigating new methods to postpone the age of death.
evp	undermine	verb	1	C2	to make someone less confident or make something weaker	A series of scandals have undermined people's confidence in the government.	All this doesn't undermine the importance of charity workers and entertainers in our work for the greater good.
evp	underneath	adverb	1	B2	under or below	He was wearing a dark jacket with a red shirt underneath.	The rock was about 70m high and there was water underneath.
evp	underpaid	adjective	1	C1	not earning enough for your work	Her staff felt they were underpaid.	They claim that they are overworked and underpaid (it's the usual reason for striking, isn't it?)
evp	underpants	noun	1	B1	a piece of underwear that covers the area between your waist and the top of your legs	I need some new underpants.	Was that woman me, standing there in those ugly-looking underpants, but with a smart sports bra, with everybody laughing around her?
evp	undershirt	noun	1	C1	a piece of underwear that covers the upper part of the body and you wear under a shirt	As a gift for the new baby she brought tiny undershirts in three sizes.	
evp	understand	verb	1	A1	to know the meaning of something that someone says	She explained the whole idea again, but I still didn't understand.	My teacher helps me when I don't understand.
evp	understand	verb	2	A2	to know why or how something happens or works, or how to do something	We still don't fully understand how the brain works.	The teacher explained her plan for teaching and we understood how to plan our time.
evp	understand	verb	3	B1	to know how someone feels or why they behave in a particular way	I don't understand James sometimes.	Maybe now you can understand why I hate shopping. kisses,
evp	understand	verb	4	C1	used to say that you believe something is true because someone has told you it is	I understand that the school is due to close next year.	I understand that the job entails entertaining people.
evp	understand	verb	5	C1	to say something to someone in a way that they understand	I had a little difficulty making myself understood.	(Find enclosed a paper slip on which I have written a destination, number of tickets, etc., in the German language - use it just in case you can't make yourselves understood.)
evp	understandable	adjective	1	B2	An understandable feeling or action is one that you would expect in that particular situation.	"I still feel really angry about it." "That's understandable."	I guess they wouldn't give me permission to stay at a female friend's home, but that's understandable.
evp	understandably	adverb	1	C1	in a way that is expected in a particular situation	She's understandably upset.	Furthermore, the use of the computer system caused long waiting times because everyone wanted - understandably - to find out more about suitable working opportunities.
evp	understanding	noun	1	B2	knowledge about a subject, situation, etc. or about how something works	She doesn't have any understanding of politics.	It was my understanding that discounts were available on the tickets, as the advertisement showed, but there were no discounts.
evp	understanding	noun	2	B2	sympathy	Thank you for your understanding - I do appreciate it.	Thank you for your understanding.
evp	understanding	noun	3	C1	an informal agreement between two people	The two sides have come to/reached an understanding about the sale of the house.	I intend to express my dissatisfaction with your services through the present letter, and to reach an understanding from which I could be compensated.
evp	understanding	adjective	1	B2	showing sympathy for someone's problems	Fortunately, my boss is very understanding.	They are famous, but they need to be alone sometimes. I think the media must be more understanding.
evp	undertake	verb	1	C1	to do or begin to do something, especially something that will take a long time or be difficult	Students are required to undertake simple experiments.	To achieve it the above mentioned steps should be undertaken.
evp	undertake	verb	2	C2	to decide or agree to do something	She undertook to organize the meeting.	In the last meeting of Our Neighborhood Club we discussed the actions you could undertake to make this situation more bearable.
evp	undertaking	noun	1	C2	a difficult or important piece of work, especially one that takes a long time	Building your own house is a major undertaking.	While such an undertaking is most advisable, I should like to point out that there may be drawbacks.
evp	underwater	adjective	1	B2	under the surface of water	an underwater camera	If you have diving equipment, you will spend a very good time underwater.
evp	underway	adjective	1	C2	If something is underway, it is happening.	Economic recovery is already underway.	The weather was beautiful and the sun shone but as soon as I was underway, the weather turned on us and grew worse with every step.
evp	underway	adjective	2	C2	to begin	The film festival gets underway on July 11th.	
evp	underwear	noun	1	B1	the clothes that you wear next to your skin, under your other clothes	They sell a wide range of underwear.	If I see some nice underwear, I will buy it too.
evp	undesirable	adjective	1	C2	Something that is undesirable is not wanted because it is bad or unpleasant.	an undesirable influence	In this day and age, man is inextricably interwoven with the undesirable environmental damage, and the problems as far as the environment is concerned have generated a great deal of heated debate.
evp	undeveloped	adjective	1	C2	Undeveloped land has no buildings on it and is not used for anything.	The site is still undeveloped.	The Town Council decided to take measures in order to benefit our area, which has remained undeveloped for the last five years.
evp	undo	verb	1	B2	to open something that is fastened or tied	The buttons on her dress are hard to undo.	
evp	undo	verb	2	B2	to make a computer get rid of the last change you made to a document and make it the way it was before	You need to undo that change.	
evp	undoubtedly	adverb	1	C1	used to emphasize that something is true	Stress has undoubtedly contributed to her illness.	Indeed, children, regardless of what kind of family they grow up in, have the right to be taught to prepare themselves for dealing with the real world and the problems that come with it. This is still undoubtedly every family's obligation whether wealthy or poor, and there are no exceptions.
evp	undress	verb	1	B1	to remove your clothes or someone else's clothes	She undressed the children and put them to bed.	The chair is for my clothes when I undress.
evp	undressed	adjective	1	B2	not wearing any clothes	I got undressed and went to bed.	We got undressed quicker than ever and ran into the waterfall.
evp	undue	adjective	1	C2	more than is necessary	I don't want to cause undue alarm.	Moreover, not only do they save time, but also they do it without undue effort since it is not difficult or tiring any more to clean or cook
evp	uneasy	adjective	1	B2	worried because you think something bad might happen	I feel a little uneasy about her traveling alone.	Anyway I was getting uneasy because of all that silence, so I began to sing.
evp	unemployed	adjective	1	B1	not having a job that provides money	He's been unemployed for over a year.	I have been unemployed for four months.
evp	unemployed	noun	1	C1	people who are unemployed	We want to get the unemployed back into work.	I am a lawyer and not so long ago I worked in Poznan Unemployment Office where I happened to use English - not talking to the unemployed of course.
evp	unemployment	noun	1	B1	the number of people who are unemployed	a rise/fall in unemployment	Later, after a discussion about unemployment, we did reading, writing and listening.
evp	unethical	adjective	1	C2	morally bad	unethical business methods	Then, if you would like to perform an experiment, you cannot, because that would be unethical.
evp	uneven	adjective	1	C2	not level, smooth, or in equal amounts	an uneven floor	At the same time we must solve the financial problems incurred by the uneven age distribution.
evp	uneventful	adjective	1	C2	without problems and without anything exciting happening	The journey itself was fairly uneventful.	This rather quiet and uneventful life changed when we moved to the city.
evp	unexpected	adjective	1	B1	not expected	His death was completely unexpected.	Last week I had an unexpected visit from my best friend - Mark.
evp	unexpectedly	adverb	1	B2	in a way or at a time that is not expected	Retail sales unexpectedly fell last month.	He called me really unexpectedly at work, and told me to go to his office at once.
evp	unfair	adjective	1	B1	not treating people in a equal way	an unfair system	He always gave me horrible marks and was very unfair.
evp	unfair	adjective	2	B2	not true and morally wrong	It's unfair to blame Roger for everything.	Furthermore, it's unfair to say that there is nothing to do in the evenings, because there is lots to do.
evp	unfairly	adverb	1	B2	in an unfair way	His employers treated him very unfairly.	Your report not only gave wrong information to your readers but also criticized a music festival unfairly.
evp	unfamiliar	adjective	1	B2	not known to you	I noticed several unfamiliar faces in the meeting room.	On the other hand, you may not like some dishes, because they may be unfamiliar to you.
evp	unfamiliar	adjective	2	B2	to not have any knowledge or experience of something	A lot of people are unfamiliar with the system.	
evp	unfashionable	adjective	1	B2	not fashionable or popular at a particular time	This kind of cooking is very unfashionable now.	I think that museums became a little bit unfashionable as a way of knowing or showing something.
evp	unfavorable	adjective	1	C2	negative and showing that you do not like something	The play received generally unfavorable reviews.	He often gets into deep research of how to avoid unfavorable effects, which modern technology has on the environment.
evp	unfavorable	adjective	2	C2	not good and likely to cause problems	unfavorable weather conditions	We are talked too much about "depressing industries" and "unfavorable market conditions."
evp	unfit	adjective	1	B2	not good enough or not having the qualities needed or expected for something	The building was declared unfit for human habitation.	Cars also emit carbon monoxide and make the air unfit to breathe.
evp	unfold	verb	1	C1	to become open and flat, or to make something become open and flat	I unfolded the map.	Well, you will be if you saw our slide show and talk - members can hardly forget that relaxing afternoon when we unfolded the sails on the lake and enjoyed the tranquility of the area.
evp	unfold	verb	2	C2	If a situation or story unfolds, it develops or becomes known.	The nation watched on TV as the tragic events unfolded.	The plot unfolds in an exciting way and the film is fraught with lies, surprises and insinuations.
evp	unforeseen	adjective	1	C1	not expected	The concert was cancelled due to unforeseen circumstances.	Finally, owing to unforeseen circumstances, the half-day visit to St Andrews was cancelled and I was told about it only in the late morning, which prevented me from doing what I had planned.
evp	unforgettable	adjective	1	B1	Something that is unforgettable is so good, interesting, etc. that you remember it for a long time.	Seeing Niagara Falls was an unforgettable experience.	I've just arrived home and I'd like to thank you for the unforgettable weekend.
evp	unfortunate	adjective	1	B2	used to show that you wish something was not true or had not happened	an unfortunate mistake	It is unfortunate that he couldn't inform you about the conference.
evp	unfortunate	adjective	2	B2	unlucky	One unfortunate person failed to see the hole and fell straight into it.	He was always an unfortunate person, because bad things happened to him all the time.
evp	unfortunately	adverb	1	A2	used to say that you wish something was not true or had not happened	I'd love to come, but unfortunately, I have to work.	Unfortunately I lost my keys.
evp	unfriendly	adjective	1	B1	not friendly	She was really unfriendly to me.	My last teacher was very unfriendly.
evp	unhappiness	noun	1	B2	the state of being unhappy	Her unhappiness was obvious to everyone.	They feel very unhappy living in a zoo, since for them it is like a prison, and their unhappiness can bring about their death.
evp	unhappy	adjective	1	A2	sad	an unhappy childhood/marriage	I was unhappy you couldn't come to my birthday party.
evp	unhappy	adjective	2	B1	not satisfied	I'm unhappy about the situation.	I'm still unhappy about my present accommodation for the following reasons.
evp	unhealthy	adjective	1	B1	likely to become ill or likely to damage your health	He has a very unhealthy lifestyle.	The city is unsafe and unhealthy because of the pollution and the violence.
evp	unhelpful	adjective	1	B2	not wanting to help someone, in a way that seems unfriendly	The taxi driver was rude and unhelpful.	However, The Taverna has no uniform and the waiters there are sometimes pushy and unhelpful.
evp	unhelpful	adjective	2	C1	not improving a situation	an unhelpful remark	Because of the unhelpful and useless solution from this company, called Energy Plus, I am looking for advice.
evp	uniform	noun	1	A2	a special set of clothes that are worn by people who do a particular job or go to a particular school	a school uniform	I think I have left the skirt of my school uniform in your house.
evp	unimaginable	adjective	1	C2	Something that is unimaginable is difficult to imagine because it is so bad, good, big, etc.	unimaginable pain/wealth	Later, at the age of 60, after he had suffered from a stroke that was a side effect of the open heart surgery he underwent, he was left speech-impaired, which can be considered an unimaginable handicap for an actor.
evp	unimportant	adjective	1	B1	not important	Staffing is still a relatively unimportant issue compared to the other problems that we're facing.	Surely there were some little problems but I think they were unimportant.
evp	uninhabited	adjective	1	C2	If a place is uninhabited, no one lives there.	an uninhabited island	The house turned out to be uninhabited, as my brother had said.
evp	uninterested	adjective	1	B1	not interested	He's completely uninterested in politics.	He is uninterested in his father['s] money.
evp	uninteresting	adjective	1	B1	not interesting	His later work is uninteresting in comparison with his first novel.	Magazines are only written about uninteresting things.
evp	union	noun	1	B1	an organization that represents a group of people
who do a particular job or who have the same goals	a teachers'/firefighters' union	I was the chairperson of the school student union.
evp	union	noun	2	B2	a single political unit that is made up of two or more
countries, states, etc.	the former Soviet Union	I visited the Soviet Union and spent a couple of days in Lvov.
evp	unique	adjective	1	B2	different from everyone and everything else	Everyone's fingerprints are unique.	Every book is unique because every writer is unique, with his own style and his own character.
evp	unique	adjective	2	B2	unusual and special	Do not miss this unique opportunity to buy all six pans at half the recommended price.	First of all, I would like to tell you that I really enjoyed my stay and it was a unique experience for me.
evp	unique	adjective	3	C1	to exist in only one place, or be connected with only one person or thing	It's a method of education that is unique to this school.	I strongly believe that every country needs its local shops with products that are unique to the particular country, not only because it is very good for local development but also because this way the world will stay colorful and interesting.
evp	unit	noun	1	B1	a single thing or a separate part of something larger	The first year of the course is divided into four units.	So, don't worry because I'll study the unit with my friend and he'[ll] teach me anything I don't know.
evp	unit	noun	2	C1	a group of people living or working together, especially for a particular purpose	the family unit	This is very important because once they have grown up, they have to be together in the family unit with their own kids.
evp	unite	verb	1	C1	to join together as a group, or to make people join together as a group	We need a leader who can unite the party.	A barbecue would unite all members in a rarely seen way, because we would all be together for a day or an afternoon which would be enough to make some new friends and get to know the other members better.
evp	united	adjective	1	B2	joined together as one group, organization, etc.	We as a country are united in sorrow for those we lost.	Despite all these advantages, I deeply miss the times when I had almost no technological facilities, but a very happy and united family.
evp	united	adjective	2	B2	If people are united, they all agree about something.	Democrats seemed united in favor of the resolution.	We have the authority to make changes, that is if we stand united.
evp	unity	noun	1	C1	when everyone agrees with each other or wants to stay together	national/party unity	I would conclude by saying that some healthy competition is good, but your main goal has to be to work together as a group and work towards the achievement of goals - as the saying goes, "united we stand, divided we fall" and unity is strength.
evp	universal	adjective	1	B2	relating to everyone in the world, or to everyone in a particular group	a universal truth	I think the film Yasujino Ozo has something universal in relation to our daily life, a kind of feeling or emotion.
evp	universally	adverb	1	C1	in a way that involves everyone in the world, or everyone in a particular group	She is universally adored.	Furthermore fame can give people the feeling that they are universally loved.
evp	university	noun	1	A1	a place where students study at a high level to get a degree	the University of Cambridge	My friend is a student at the university in my town]
evp	unjustified	adjective	1	C1	done without a reason and not deserved	unjustified criticism	The location turned out to be far too small and the costs unjustified.
evp	unkind	adjective	1	B1	slightly cruel	an unkind remark	Joss, the landlord of Jamaica Inn, is a rude person and he is unkind to his wife Pa[t]ience.
evp	unknown	adjective	1	B1	not known or familiar	The exact number of people carrying the virus is unknown.	We listened to demo-tapes from unknown bands in our surrounding area]
evp	unlikely	adjective	1	B1	not likely to happen	It's unlikely that we'll see them again.	Unfortunately, it is very unlikely that I would be able to go and collect the keys at that time, because I have arranged an appointment with my doctor to see him about my leg.
evp	unlikely	adjective	2	C2	difficult to believe or probably not true	an unlikely explanation/story	It's an unlikely tale in every sense: very different people from all around the world - with very different social situation - dropped into an unexpected turn of events.
evp	unlimited	adjective	1	B2	without any limits	a service that offers unlimited Internet access	Moreover, who has the freedom to buy whatever they need with an unlimited budget?
evp	unload	verb	1	C1	If a ship, aircraft, etc. unloads, goods are taken off it.	The ship unloaded in Marseilles.	Old fishing boats from everywhere unload their merchandise there.
evp	unload	verb	2	C2	to remove things from a vehicle	Can you help me unload the car?	We began to unload the car and showed the children around the house.
evp	unlock	verb	1	B2	to open something that is locked using a key or an electronic device	They haven't unlocked the computer room yet.	She unlocked the door and went in.
evp	unlucky	adjective	1	B1	having or causing bad luck	They played well and were unlucky to lose.	I'm going to tell you a story of an unlucky man.
evp	unmarried	adjective	1	C1	not married	She lives with her unmarried son.	It has even been proved by research carried out by a sociologist that the woman of today prefers to stay unmarried to keep her own identity.
evp	unnatural	adjective	1	B2	not normal or right	an unnatural silence	Animals live in unnatural conditions, and die early.
evp	unnecessarily	adverb	1	C1	in a way that is not necessary	Of course we don't want to alarm people unnecessarily, but they should be alerted to
potential dangers.	[The] community should understand the reality of the effects of using private cars unnecessarily.
evp	unnecessary	adjective	1	B1	describes something that could be avoided or that is not needed	You don't want to make any unnecessary car trips in this weather.	Don't waste too much time with unnecessary TV shows or computer games.
evp	unnoticed	adjective	1	C1	without being seen or noticed	We managed to slip away unnoticed.	But by the time we stop and look around us, it is usually too late to say goodbye to things that were with us, watched us grow and then disappeared, alone and unnoticed.
evp	unpack	verb	1	B1	to remove things from a suitcase, bag or box	I haven't even had time to unpack my suitcase/clothes/bag.	After I unpacked, I asked if I could have a guide to show me around the town.
evp	unpaid	adjective	1	C1	An unpaid debt, tax, etc. has not been paid.	They had nearly $20,000 in unpaid debts.	This amount was unpaid by the previous owner.
evp	unpaid	adjective	2	C1	working without getting any money	unpaid work	At the time he was mostly doing unpaid work, living on a low budget and going to painting night-classes.
evp	unpleasant	adjective	1	B1	not enjoyable or pleasant	an unpleasant experience/smell	On top of that, if you stay in the countryside, you will avoid the smog and the noise of the city, which are very unpleasant!
evp	unpleasant	adjective	2	C1	difficult and not easy to like	an unpleasant young man	Furthermore, the air-conditioning made the bus too cold, there were no toilets on-board, and the bus driver, a very unpleasant man, could not provide us with answers to our questions.
evp	unpopular	adjective	1	B2	disliked by most people	The proposal is deeply unpopular with the public.	In addition, the outdoor swimming pool, supposedly unpopular, happens to be constantly full of people, since waterpolo classes are given for free and there is a bar just next to it.
evp	unprecedented	adjective	1	C2	never having happened before	The Internet has given people unprecedented access to information.	Last but not least, accidents in nuclear factories and nuclear waste are likely to cause unprecedented environmental damage.
evp	unpredictable	adjective	1	B2	changing so much that you do not know what will happen next	The weather there can be a bit unpredictable - one minute it's blue skies and the next minute it's raining hard.	By that time I was nervous because there were too many unpredictable things happening]
evp	unproductive	adjective	1	C1	not producing anything of value	There were months of unproductive bureaucracy.	Especially if these graduates are unemployed and they can't find a job easily, they would feel unproductive by staying home.
evp	unprofessional	adjective	1	C1	not showing the standard of behavior or skills that are expected of a person in a skilled job	an unprofessional attitude	Your reporter was so inattentive and unprofessional that he did not bother to check the figures and mixed up 35 and 45.
evp	unqualified	adjective	1	C1	without the qualifications or knowledge to do something	She was totally unqualified to manage the business.	Polish schools lag behind the European ones. Moreover, the teachers are sometimes unqualified or unprepared.
evp	unquestionably	adverb	1	C1	in a way that is obvious and causes no doubt	She is unquestionably the best person for the job.	Although the content of the Conference was unquestionably well prepared, some organizational problems appeared.
evp	unreal	adjective	1	C1	Something that is unreal seems so strange that it is difficult to believe.	For a while I couldn't believe she was dead - it all seemed unreal.	To sum up, the reality of reality shows is that they want to simulate reality and therefore appear to be credible, a plausible opportunity for the audience to become participant and master at the same time: the most unreal situation of all.
evp	unrealistic	adjective	1	B2	not thinking about what is likely to happen or what you can really do	I think these sales forecasts are unrealistic, considering how slow sales are right now.	But it is unrealistic to think that everyone can go to work by bicycle.
evp	unreasonable	adjective	1	B2	not fair or acceptable	unreasonable behavior/demands	So it's unreasonable to think that a country can base its scholastic system only on the few things that students like.
evp	unreasonably	adverb	1	C1	in a way that is not fair	I thought the prices were unreasonably high.	To continue, the Gift Shop had unreasonably priced gifts and the students were unable to buy from it.
evp	unrelated	adjective	1	C1	having no connection	Police said his death was unrelated to the attack.	On top of that, and completely unrelated to these strikes, the medical services in the community broke down when the doctors and nurses went on a strike on their own.
evp	unreliable	adjective	1	B2	not able to be trusted or depended on	The trains were noisy, dirty, and unreliable.	This article has 4 main errors which makes it unreliable and I am disappointed in it.
evp	unrest	noun	1	C2	when a lot of people are angry about something and are likely to become violent	political/social unrest	Unemployment is inherently a source of social unrest since it concerns the citizens of a given nation very directly.
evp	unsafe	adjective	1	C1	dangerous	The building is unsafe.	It was extremely unsafe as the safety belts were broken.
evp	unsafe	adjective	2	C1	If you feel unsafe, you feel that you are in danger.	Many women feel unsafe on the streets at night.	It was then that I began to feel unsafe; I thought, if something happens, this mob will become something truly hard to control, and this idea frightened me for some time.
evp	unsatisfactory	adjective	1	B2	not good enough	The excuse they gave was unsatisfactory.	It was a great idea, but I think I need to make some points about the things that I found unsatisfactory.
evp	unscrupulous	adjective	1	C2	behaving in a way that is dishonest or unfair in order to get what you want	an unscrupulous financial adviser	We are loyal readers of your newspaper and we ask you to raise your voice in defense of our community against the unscrupulous sharks of big business.
evp	unsolved	adjective	1	C1	having no answer or solution	an unsolved mystery/murder/crime	Consequently, a lot of problems remained unsolved.
evp	unspoiled	adjective	1	C1	An unspoiled place is beautiful because it has not been changed or damaged by people.	an island with clean, unspoiled beaches	I hope that one day this unfriendly place will become once more the peaceful, unspoiled and beautiful village that enchanted every passenger with its beauty.
evp	unsuccessful	adjective	1	B2	not achieving what was wanted or intended	They made several unsuccessful attempts to reach the men.	We tried very hard to score a second goal but all our efforts were unsuccessful.
evp	unsuccessfully	adverb	1	C1	in a way that is not successful	We tried unsuccessfully to climb the wall.	I tried to reach the company several times in the last two months, unsuccessfully.
evp	unsuitable	adjective	1	B2	not acceptable or right for someone or something	The software blocks material that is unsuitable for children.	If the date of the meeting is unsuitable for you, just inform me.
evp	unsure	adjective	1	B2	not certain or having doubts	I'm a little unsure about what to do.	As I have not been there before, I am rather unsure of what to wear.
evp	unsure	adjective	2	C2	without confidence	He has been unsure of himself ever since he failed to get that job.	On the other hand, Kingshaw, normally weaker than Cooper, very sensitive, unsure of himself, has his ups, too, and comes, though very seldom, to feel determined and superior; when he climbs the rocks he is definitely head and shoulders above Cooper who hasn't a head for heights.
evp	unsustainable	adjective	1	C2	causing damage to the environment by using more of something than can be replaced naturally	unsustainable fishing methods	Moreover, the unsustainable use of the earth's resources will deprive future generations of the means of their survival.
evp	unsustainable	adjective	2	C2	Something that is unsustainable cannot continue at the same rate.	The level of spending on health care is unsustainable.	
evp	unthinkable	adjective	1	C1	If something is unthinkable, it is so strange that you cannot imagine it will ever happen.	Thirty years ago a no-smoking restaurant would have been unthinkable.	Nowadays it is simply unthinkable to live without a computer.
evp	untie	verb	1	B2	to open a knot or something that has been tied with a knot	I untied my shoelaces and kicked off my shoes.	She tried to untie the ropes but they were too strong.
evp	untouched	adjective	1	C1	not changed or damaged in any way	Most of the island remains untouched by tourism.	The starting point is in Lokken, an idyllic fishing village beside the North Sea, still untouched by tourism.
evp	untrue	adjective	1	C1	false	We knew the rumors were untrue.	They realized that almost everything mentioned in your advertisement appeared to be untrue.
evp	unusual	adjective	1	A2	different and not ordinary, often in a way that is interesting or exciting	an unusual situation/circumstance/occurrence	It is about a dragon who is very kind and unusual!
evp	unwanted	adjective	1	C1	not wanted	an unwanted gift	Children feel alone, unwanted and become very often latch-key children who come back to a sad home where nobody is waiting for them.
evp	unwell	adjective	1	B1	ill	to feel/look unwell	I won't be able to go to your English class tomorrow morning because my sister is unwell and I will have to stay with her.
evp	unwilling	adjective	1	B2	not wanting to do something	A lot of people are unwilling to accept change.	I was unwilling to face the truth and the reality that my best friend had already left me.
evp	unwillingly	adverb	1	C1	in a way that shows that you do not want to do something	He unwillingly agreed to take her home.	There is a clash between two different cultures and mentalities. Unwillingly though, they accept them, probably due to the fact they are satisfied with their son becoming a real adult.
evp	unwillingness	noun	1	C1	a state of not being willing to do something	Both sides have shown unwillingness to negotiate.	In the 70s some women also began to wear short skirts, which might be seen as a way to express their unwillingness to obey certain dress codes or as a symbol of their independence.
evp	unwind	verb	1	C1	to relax, especially after working	Music helps me to unwind.	The houses will be semi-detached to allow neighbors to chat and unwind.
evp	unwind	verb	2	C2	If you unwind something, or if something unwinds, it stops being curled up or twisted around something else and is made straight.	He unwound the bandage.	Slowly, the doctor unwound the bandages revealing the two cotton patches covering her eyes.
evp	unwise	adjective	1	C2	stupid and likely to cause problems	an unwise decision	But we don't want to put too much pressure on them because this is unwise and the worst thing parents could do to their children.
evp	up	adverb	1	A1	vertical or as straight as possible	He stood up.	[The whole class stood up and sang "Imagine".
evp	up	adverb	2	A2	toward or in a higher place or position	She looked up and smiled at me.	As the concert finished, I heard someone call my name. I looked up and I saw my friend on the other side of the concert hall]
evp	up	adverb	3	B1	to walk directly toward someone or something until you are next to them	He came straight up to me and introduced himself.	She came up to him to help him with the luggage.
evp	up	adverb	4	B1	not in bed	I stayed up all night finishing this report.	That night we were up until late talking and after a couple of days she left.
evp	up	adverb	5	B1	If an action or decision is up to someone, they are responsible for doing or making it.	I can't decide for you, Jack, it's up to you.	This is my opinion but it's up to you.
evp	up	adverb	6	B1	to be doing or planning something	What have you been up to?	What have you been up to?
evp	up	adverb	7	B2	to a greater degree, amount, volume, etc.	Please speak up. I can't hear you.	Moreover the microphone suddenly wouldn't work anymore, and even though I desperately tried to speak up, people began to lose interest in both my speech and me and simply started to talk to each other instead.
evp	up	adverb	8	B2	used to emphasize that an action or process is complete	Come on, Maria, drink up your lemonade.	Anna, I broke one of your beautiful vases accidentally when I was trying to clean up the house one evening.
evp	up	adverb	9	B2	rising and falling	They were jumping up and down with impatience.	Well, you should be bouncing up and down with joy (just kidding)!
evp	upbringing	noun	1	B2	the way that your parents take care of you and the things that they teach you when you are growing up	a strict religious/Catholic/Jewish upbringing	Now, as a grown-up person, I am trying to evaluate my upbringing objectively.
evp	upcoming	adjective	1	C1	An upcoming event will happen soon.	the upcoming elections	This is a good way to keep our members informed about upcoming events.
evp	update	verb	1	B1	to add new information	The website has just been updated.	Besides, I can also always update my knowledge by visiting the information and new technology websites on the Internet from time to time.
evp	update	verb	2	B2	to make something more modern	They need to update their image.	On the other hand, the movies shown are updated regularly, I guess that part is under control.
evp	update	noun	1	B2	new information	I'll need regular updates on your progress.	Television offers different programs, such as documentaries, programs on culture and updates on the news.
evp	update	noun	2	B2	a new form of something that existed at an earlier time	a software update	
evp	upgrade	verb	1	B2	to improve something so that it is of a higher quality or is a newer model	to upgrade a computer	The computer has upgraded most existing inventions, and made them more efficient, faster and more user friendly.
evp	upgrade	noun	1	B2	a piece of software or equipment that improves the quality, power or usefulness of a computer or machine	a hardware upgrade	
evp	uphold	verb	1	C2	to agree with a decision, especially a legal one, and say it was correct	The court upheld the ruling.	Last but not least, governments around the world should pass and uphold stricter laws concerning environmental issues.
evp	uphold	verb	2	C2	to support a decision, principle, or law	Police officers are expected to uphold the law.	Additionally, some uphold the view that people living in the countryside face greater problems than those in towns.
evp	upkeep	noun	1	C2	the process or cost of keeping something in good condition, or of keeping a person or animal healthy	The upkeep of a building like that must be very high.	In point of fact, after our early morning meeting at the community center we decided to resort, if nothing else helps, to raising money for the upkeep of the hospital at the expense of our pension.
evp	upload	verb	1	B1	to send a computer program or a document electronically from your computer, using the Internet	All the files have been uploaded to the server.	You should upload it to the website.
evp	upper	adjective	1	B1	at a higher position or level than something else	the upper lip/body	I am doing the upper intermediate level and last summer I was in London for three months.
evp	upper	adjective	2	C2	to be in a stronger position than someone else so that you control a situation	Government troops are gradually gaining the upper hand over the rebels.	Humans vs. machines - who has the upper hand?
evp	the upper class	noun	1	C1	the social group consisting of the people of the highest social class, who are usually rich	The upper class usually send their children to expensive private schools.	I've just chosen to travel south and back in time to be a Roman lady, belonging to the upper class of course, living an easy life full of pleasure.
evp	upper-class	adjective	1	C1	belonging to or relating to the upper class	The novel criticizes the upper-class way of life.	Talking about fashion, one always tends to think of glamorous designer dresses, catwalks in Paris, Rome or New York, and upper-class societies, able to spend huge amounts of money on luxurious clothing.
evp	upright	adjective	1	B2	straight up or vertical	Please return your seats to an upright position and fasten your seat belts.	Immediately the pilot informed the passengers that the weather conditions were not good and told us to fasten our seatbelt, put the seat upright and ado]p the emergency position.
evp	upset	adjective	1	A2	unhappy or worried because something unpleasant has happened	They'd had an argument and she was still upset about it.	I was upset that you didn't come to my birthday party.
evp	upset	adjective	2	B2	an illness in the stomach	I had an upset stomach last night.	I wasn't feeling well at all with an upset stomach and headache.
evp	upset	verb	1	B2	to make someone feel unhappy or worried	The phone call had clearly upset her.	This really upset me as no notice was given before the show.
evp	upside down	adverb	1	B2	having the part that is usually at the top turned to be at the bottom	Turn the jar upside down and shake it.	The furniture was upside down and neither money nor cash were left.
evp	upstairs	adverb	1	A2	on or to a higher level of a building	He ran upstairs to answer the phone.	If I forget something, I don't have to go upstairs.
evp	upstairs	adjective	1	B1	on or at a higher level of a building	an upstairs window	Suddenly, Robert and I] heard a strange noise coming from an upstairs room but we kept on reading quietly.
evp	up-to-date	adjective	1	B1	modern, recent, or containing the latest information	Visit our website for up-to-date information on movie times.	I will write more later - I do need to give you up-to-date information on my love life!
evp	upward	adjective	1	C1	moving toward a higher place or level	an upward glance	The oldest group registers a steady upward movement in terms of attendance. (1802604; International English Language Testing System; Philippines; C1 EFFECTIVE OPERATIONAL PROFICIENCY; 2005; Tagalog; 7
evp	upward	adverb	1	C1	toward a higher position, level, or value	The cost of completion has been revised upward again due to inflation.	The pattern begins to go upward from 2002 to present with only 35-49 groups and 50+ groups.
evp	urban	adjective	1	B2	belonging or relating to a town or city	urban areas	We are generally more interested in an urban lifestyle than living in the countryside.
evp	urgent	adjective	1	B1	very important and needing you to take action immediately	an urgent message	He said that my school principal would like to see me that day and it was urgent.
evp	urgently	adverb	1	B1	in a way that is urgent	Help is urgently needed.	I have e-mailed you to tell you that I need your bicycle urgently.
evp	usage	noun	1	C1	the way that words are used	a guide to English grammar and usage	That is why I couldn't solve all my problems with English usage.
evp	usage	noun	2	C1	the amount of something that is used, or the way that something is used	restrictions on water usage	We have therefore decided that, at our company, we will try to keep our energy usage as low as possible.
evp	use	verb	1	A1	If you use something, you do something with it for a particular purpose.	Can I use your pen, please?	She uses the Internet every day.
evp	use	verb	2	B1	to take an amount from a supply of something	Taking a shower uses less water than taking a bath.	The equipment in the kitchen is very old and uses a lot of electricity and gas.
evp	use	verb	3	B2	to say or write a particular word or phrase	"Autumn" is used in British English, but "fall" is the usual word in American English.	
evp	use	verb	4	C2	to treat someone badly in order to get what you want	He was just using me to so he could meet the director.	What a horrible thing to do, just using people - especially him!
evp	use	verb	5	B2	to finish a supply of something	Don't use up all the milk - we need some for breakfast.	It saves time which would be used up by doing housework such as laundry, cleaning and ironing.
evp	use	noun	1	A2	when you use something, or when something is being used	an increase in the use of mobile phones	There's a very good book. It's called "English grammar in use".
evp	use	noun	2	B1	a purpose for which something is used	A food processor has a variety of uses in the kitchen.	We need computers in many places, and for many uses today.
evp	use	noun	3	B1	one of the meanings of a word, or the way that a particular word is used	Can you list all the uses of the word "point"?	
evp	use	noun	4	B2	to be useful	Is this bag of any use to you?	I hope my remarks will be of some use.
evp	use	noun	5	B2	to not be useful	His advice turned out to be no use at all.	My mother came immediately, but it was no use because my brother isn't afraid of her, so she called my father.
evp	use	noun	6	B2	used to say that trying to do something has no effect	It was no use talking to him - he just wouldn't listen.	It was no use trying to smoke cigarettes in this pub.
evp	use	noun	7	B2	to use something that is available	We were encouraged to make use of all the facilities.	Finally, I think the designers will make use of the raw materials and create an innovative look for all of us.
evp	use	noun	8	C2	permission to use something, or the ability to use something	Martin has offered me the use of his car.	One of my closest friends who lost the use of her legs five years ago in a tragic car accident took part in this trip.
evp	used	adjective	1	B1	not new and owned by someone else before you	We're looking for a good used car.	I have not much money to spend and I buy always used cds.
evp	useful	adjective	1	A2	helping you to do or achieve something	useful information/advice	It has a camera and it is very useful.
evp	usefulness	noun	1	C1	the quality of being useful	He explained the usefulness of having a Wi-Fi connection.	They came back yesterday and I have interviewed them to find out what they think about the usefulness of the program.
evp	useless	adjective	1	B1	If something is useless, it does not work well or it has no effect.	This umbrella's useless - there's a big hole in it.	I started digging, but it was useless.
evp	useless	adjective	2	C2	having no skill in an activity	She wanted help with the math but I'm just useless!	Every time I see her, she seems to be busy sewing, knitting, etc. In this I really envy her, I'm quite useless at making clothes, although I can certainly do adjustments on my clothes, make curtains and such things.
evp	user	noun	1	B1	someone who uses a product, machine or service	drug users	I would like to meet other experienced computer users in order to share programs as well as tips and tricks about programming.
evp	usually	adverb	1	A2	in the way that most often happens	He usually gets home about 6 o'clock.	Hungarian people usually eat breakfast at 6 or 7 o'clock.
evp	utmost	adjective	1	C1	used to emphasize how important or serious something is	a matter of the utmost importance	In my opinion, there are features of utmost importance that should be careful]l checked.
evp	utmost	noun	1	C1	to try as hard as you can to do something	We did our utmost to finish the project on time.	In addition, we live in a materialistic society where we all do our utmost in order to make ends meet, but we are never satisfied.
evp	utter	adjective	1	C2	used to emphasize something	She dismissed the article as utter nonsense.	To act otherwise would be, in my opinion, utter nonsense.
evp	utter	verb	1	C2	to say something	She left without uttering a word.	After I had told him about it, he was in such despair that he was not able to utter a single word.
evp	utterly	adverb	1	C1	completely	It's utterly ridiculous.	The information provided in your report about the final goal was utterly wrong.
evp	vacancy	noun	1	C1	a job that is available for someone to do	Tell me if you hear of any vacancies for secretaries.	We look forward to meeting you at your earliest convenience to discuss details, go over our salary and health package as well as any other questions you might have, before starting the procedure of finding suitable candidates for the job vacancies.
evp	vacancy	noun	2	C1	a room that is available in a hotel	Do you have any vacancies?	The hotels have no vacancies, the tourists are everywhere.
evp	vacant	adjective	1	B2	Somewhere that is vacant is available because it is not being used.	a vacant building	You see, we have plenty of vacant rooms so you would not cause any trouble.
evp	vacant	adjective	2	B2	A vacant job is available for someone to do.	The assistant marketing job is vacant - why don't you apply?	Therefore, I believe I am suitable for your vacant position.
evp	vacation	noun	1	A1	a period of time to relax or travel for pleasure instead of doing your usual work or school activities	We're taking a vacation in June.	I am on vacation, so I don't have to work.
evp	vaccinate	verb	1	C2	to give someone a special substance to prevent a disease	Have you been vaccinated against polio?	Today, ... small kids are vaccinated against most lethal viruses, ... and old people are even vaccinated against the flu.
evp	vaccination	noun	1	C2	an injection of a substance that protects you against a disease	All the children are given a meningitis vaccination.	Thanks to vaccination, more and better medicines, and many more doctors, especially in the developing countries; people can now reach up to seventy years of life.
evp	vaccine	noun	1	C2	a substance that is given to people to stop them from getting a particular disease	Doctors have run out of the flu vaccine.	An experiment was recently conducted by the same scientist group to verify if the vaccine works.
evp	vague	adjective	1	C1	not clear or certain	I have a vague idea of where the hotel is.	Do not misunderstand me: I greatly enjoyed the conference but it did not give me the satisfaction of having even a vague idea of what I would like to do...
evp	vague	adjective	2	C2	showing that someone is not thinking clearly or does not understand	a vague expression	If someone had asked him why, this person would have given a vague look, a dismissive shrug of two shoulders and a "oh, just because".
evp	vaguely	adverb	1	C2	in a way that is not clear or certain	I vaguely remember meeting him at Lionel's house.	I can vaguely remember the decor, and if I tried harder maybe I could remember the taste of the ice-cream.
evp	valid	adjective	1	B2	based on good reasons or facts that are true	a valid excuse/reason	You could hardly think of Dr. Quimper as guilty, because every one of the Crackenthorpe family had a valid reason to kill.
evp	valid	adjective	2	B2	officially or legally acceptable	The ticket is valid for three months.	Is this offer valid for the weekends, as well?
evp	validity	noun	1	C2	how true or reasonable something is	We should question the validity of these statements.	This statement is so obvious we almost never question its validity.
evp	valley	noun	1	B1	an area of low land between hills or mountains, often with a river running through it	the Nile Valley	My home town is situated in a valley.
evp	valuable	adjective	1	B1	Valuable objects are worth a lot of money.	valuable paintings	So as you can imagine, not only is the ring valuable but it also means a lot to me since it makes me remember Brazil!
evp	valuable	adjective	2	B2	Valuable information, advice, etc. is very helpful or important.	He was able to provide the police with some valuable information.	This trip will allow me to gain valuable knowledge and experience.
evp	value	noun	1	B1	how much money something could be sold for	The new road has affected the value of these houses.	"Well, there was nothing of value in the suitcase], my mother remarked, but I was close to tears.
evp	value	noun	2	B1	If something is good value or is a good value, it is of good quality or you think the amount of money you spent on it was right.	This car is a very good value for the money.	It's really good value for money, including all equipment, accommodation and food.
evp	value	noun	3	B1	how useful or important something is	The documents are of great historical value.	I was really sad because these shoes had a lot of sentimental value for me, and they were made of genuine leather!
evp	value	noun	4	B2	the beliefs people have about what is right and wrong and what is most important in life, which control their behavior	family/moral/traditional values	A tragedy occurs which causes Andrew to rediscover his moral values.
evp	value	noun	5	C1	If you accept something at face value because of the way it first looks or seems, you do so without thinking carefully about it.	You can't just accept everything you read in the newspapers at face value.	People are assessed at face value by the type of cars they drive.
evp	value	verb	1	B2	to consider something important	I've always valued her advice.	I will learn how other people live and I will also learn to value the things I have.
evp	value	verb	2	C2	to judge how much money something could be sold for	The ring was valued at $1000.	Paintings for example are valued by experts.
evp	van	noun	1	B1	a vehicle that is used for carrying things but that is smaller than a truck	a delivery van	I looked in my mirror and saw a white van.
evp	vandalism	noun	1	C2	intentional damage to public or private property	The mayor promised to crack down on vandalism.	Vandalism, for example, is very common, and who are the pretty criminals who do this? Teenagers. This is clearly caused by boredom. Yes, vandalism stems from the lack of any other suitable activities.
evp	vanish	verb	1	B2	to disappear suddenly	The sun vanished behind the clouds.	I went after the thief but he vanished into the crowd.
evp	vanish	verb	2	C2	to suddenly disappear in a mysterious way	He was walking ahead of me on the path and then he just vanished into thin air.	The fact is that vacations are not problem-solving, and whatever one wants to leave behind does not vanish into thin air, it just lurks in the corner of your mind until the return date.
evp	vanity	noun	1	C2	when someone thinks they are very attractive and is too interested in their own appearance	Her vanity is staggering.	The vanity of wearing the most fashionable clothes bores my other friend, Kate, to death.
evp	variable	adjective	1	C1	changing often	The sound quality on the recording is variable.	By contrast the figure is more variable regarding the other topics.
evp	variable	noun	1	C1	a number, amount, or situation which can change	A patient's recovery time depends on so many variables, such as age, weight, and general health.	There are too many variables and happiness may also depend on the social background of a person.
evp	variation	noun	1	B2	a difference in amount or quality	variations in price/temperature	Apart from this, there is very little variation in temperature between day and night.
evp	variation	noun	2	C2	something that is slightly different from the usual form	It's a variation on the standard apple pie.	Big Brother's counterpart, "Lost Story", did really well the first time and a bit less the second time. Still, it is very popular and a variation on this theme, called "Nine people", still does very well today.
evp	varied	adjective	1	B2	consisting of many different things or types	a varied diet	Remember you should always eat a varied diet.
evp	various	adjective	1	A2	many different	I left London for various reasons.	We played various games and danced too.
evp	vary	verb	1	B2	If things of the same type vary, they are different from each other.	Car prices vary greatly/widely from one state to another.	The price of the dishes varies.
evp	vary	verb	2	B2	to change or to cause something to change	Temperatures vary depending on/according to the time of year.	To vary the pictures of cultural events, I would recommend visiting the Wednesday market, which starts at 8 am.
evp	vase	noun	1	B1	a container that you put flowers in	a glass vase	Beside the bed there is a large vase with flowers.
evp	vast	adjective	1	B2	extremely big	a vast amount/sum of money	Among the vast choice of interesting buildings to photograph I can name the "National Portrait Museum", a huge building in renaissance style, and the old "Castle of Sforza", built in the eleventh century.
evp	vegetable	noun	1	A1	a plant that you eat, for example potatoes, onions, beans, etc.	fresh/frozen vegetables	I like eating fish, vegetables, fruit and salad.
evp	vegetarian	noun	1	B1	someone who does not eat meat or fish	We feel a lot better since we became vegetarians.	I've heard that even the non-vegetarian food is good there, but I'm a vegetarian.
evp	vegetarian	adjective	1	B1	not eating, containing, or using meat or fish	All her children are vegetarian.	Do you like vegetarian food?
evp	vegetation	noun	1	C1	the plants and trees that grow in a particular area	They hacked a path through the dense vegetation.	I dream of being the first one to set foot on a white sandy beach, to admire a new kind of vegetation: cranberry bushes, sweet potatoes, wild turkeys, a different climate; how scary and exciting at the same time!
evp	vehicle	noun	1	B1	something such as a car or bus that takes people from one place to another, especially using roads	The driver lost control of the vehicle and hit a tree.	Sometimes I watch programs about cars and other vehicles.
evp	veil	noun	1	C1	a piece of material that a woman wears over her head or over her head and face	The bride wore a veil of French lace.	Especially, a bride and a groom wear special hats and colorful make-up. And most brides wear a long veil so grooms can't see their wife's face.
evp	veil	noun	2	C2	something that hides or prevents you from knowing something	A veil of secrecy surrounded the appointment of the new college president.	Depending on the disposition of those elements within a person, one can turn out to be an angelic soul who radiates trust and happiness, a malevolent spirit hidden under a glamour of niceties; a golden entity, shrouded by a veil of coarseness and bluntness; or a purely evil fiend who exudes despair and malice.
evp	vein	noun	1	C1	one of the tubes in your body that carries blood to the heart	the veins in the leg/neck	Do you love the sensation of your blood rushing in your veins, your knees trembling slightly and your hair standing at attention? Well, I do, and dangerous sports are the thing for me.
evp	velvet	noun	1	C2	cloth that has a thick, soft surface on one side	a black velvet jacket	She was wearing a long black velvet evening gown covered with a pattern of big red roses.
evp	venture	noun	1	C2	a new activity or business that may involve some risk of failure	a business venture	They even give vast amounts of people a means of living, and can become very lucrative business ventures.
evp	venture	verb	1	C2	to leave a safe place and go somewhere that may involve risks	If the snow stops, I might venture out.	After having visited some of the more frequented islands, we decided to venture out to the island of Fourni.
evp	venture	verb	2	C2	to say or do something when you are likely to be wrong or to be criticized	I wouldn’t venture an opinion about that.	The men and women who could have done something to cut short the chain of events which led to the Second World War had already suffered the First World War, and no one could venture they were in the position of foreseeing the development of a similar war.
evp	venue	noun	1	B2	a place where a sports game, musical performance, or special event happens	The hotel is an ideal venue for conferences and business meetings.	The Majestic Hotel as the party venue sounds really good but isn't it very expensive?
evp	verb	noun	1	A2	a word that is used to say that someone does something or that something happens. For example, the words "arrive," "make," "be," and "feel" are verbs.	a regular/irregular verb	[T]his book will help you to learn basic English, it teaches you all the irregular verbs.
evp	verbal	adjective	1	C1	relating to words or the use of words	verbal ability/skills	I found the English lessons very helpful for my students to improve their verbal skills - though we might change the contents to make them more interesting for them.
evp	verbal	adjective	2	C2	spoken and not written	a verbal promise/agreement	I would expect to receive a reply from your end, either written or verbal, about my complaint.
evp	verdict	noun	1	C1	an opinion or decision based on the facts of a situation	City planners think it’s a good idea to ban traffic from downtown streets, but the public’s verdict is that it’s a stupid idea.	Two or more articles are devoted to famous people and famous political events which took place in Greece, in order to offer a verdict to students.
evp	verdict	noun	2	C2	a decision made in a court of law or by a person in authority	a guilty verdict	Three months later the verdict was official: he was going to be paralyzed from the waist down.
evp	verify	verb	1	C1	to prove that something is true, or do something to discover if it is true	It was impossible to verify her statement.	The Canadian Patent Office Branch will be responsible for verifying if new inventions are truly new or have already been invented somewhere in the world.
evp	versatile	adjective	1	C2	having many different skills	a versatile player/performer	She is a very gregarious and versatile person whose scintillating and jocular personality makes everybody melt.
evp	versatile	adjective	2	C2	useful for doing a lot of different things	a versatile tool	The Internet today is the most versatile tool in so many ways.
evp	verse	noun	1	B2	one of the parts that a song or poem is divided into	I only know the first verse of the poem.	But I was so puzzled that when I tried to sing, I couldn't remember a word of the verse I had written.
evp	version	noun	1	B2	one form of something that is slightly different from other forms of the same thing	An English-language version of the book is planned for the fall.	Who has never said that the original book was better than the film version?
evp	version	noun	2	C1	someone's description of what has happened	Her version of the accident was completely different from that given by the driver of the other car.	I do not know your source of information, but not only did he/she provided you with many untruthful details, the style of the article also shows a biased version of the event.
evp	vertical	adjective	1	C1	pointing straight up from a surface	a vertical line	The vertical axis indicates the different years while the horizontal axis illustrates the money spent in millions.
evp	very	adverb	1	A1	used emphasize an adjective or adverb	Thank you very much.	My teacher is very nice.
evp	very	adverb	2	A1	not good, tall, happy, etc.	The film wasn't very good.	My college is not very big.
evp	very	adverb	3	A1	to a large amount or degree	Thank you very much for the flowers!	I like Bradford very much.
evp	very	adjective	1	C2	used to emphasize a noun	This is the very book I've been looking for all month.	You cannot infringe individual liberties and ban the purchase of cars - it would go against the very fabric of modern society.
evp	vest	noun	1	C2	something you wear that is like a jacket with no sleeves	My grandfather always wore his vest buttoned up.	And he has too show how much he earns: he only wears top brand watches, shirts and vests, with colors profoundly studied and well combined.
evp	vet	noun	1	B1	someone whose job is to give medical care to animals that are ill or hurt	Helen is training to become a vet.	Sorry Mr. Smith but I'[ll miss tomorrow's class as I have to go to the vet with my dog.
evp	veteran	noun	1	C2	someone who has a lot of experience doing a job or activity	She's a 20-year veteran of TV news broadcasting.	In the school where I work as an English teacher there are two veteran teachers of English.
evp	veteran	noun	2	C2	someone who was once a member of one of a country's military organizations	a veteran of World War II	But even now I can recollect my unwillingness to get involved in parades, to join the veterans, military men, soldiers who were really proud of having a rare opportunity to feel a cog in a big wheel.
evp	viable	adjective	1	C2	effective and able to be successful	a viable alternative to nuclear power	This is a question that demands reasonable answers and viable solutions.
evp	vice	noun	1	C2	something bad that someone often does	His virtues far outnumber his vices.	My children would always know that they are loved and accepted in spite of their vices and not only for their virtues but just because they are my children.
evp	vice versa	adverb	1	C1	used for referring to the opposite of what you have just said	Never use indoor lights outside and vice versa.	The piles of cash are not far away from any celebrity and we all know that time equals money and vice versa.
evp	vicious	adjective	1	C2	violent and dangerous	a vicious attack on a child	She was a real, vicious murderer.
evp	vicious	adjective	2	C2	intended to upset someone	a vicious rumor	One advantage with this school that rose above the others, was the fact that there was virtually no cruel bullying or vicious teasing.
evp	vicious	adjective	3	C2	a continuing unpleasant situation, created when one problem causes another problem which then makes the first problem worse	Many people get trapped in a vicious circle of dieting and weight gain.	So we could say that it becomes a vicious circle.
evp	victim	noun	1	B2	someone who has suffered the effects of violence, illness or bad luck	victims of crime	His wife was his last victim.
evp	victory	noun	1	B2	when you win a game, competition, election, fight, war, etc.	Phoenix managed a 135-114 victory over Denver.	They were all celebrating their victory with a gorgeous dinner.
evp	video	noun	1	A2	a short film that can be watched on television, a computer, a camera, etc.	music videos	I like it because it has a camera to make videos.
evp	video	noun	2	A2	a film, television program, etc. recorded on a long, narrow, magnetic strip, or the recorded strip itself that is inside a rectangular plastic container	He just used to stay in and watch videos.	[O]n that channel you have the chance to watch many videos of your favourite singer, and learn about their news.
evp	video clip	noun	1	B1	a short video recording that you can see on a website	The website has several video clips of celebrity interviews.	It shows how a band or a singer do their video clips.
evp	video game	noun	1	A2	a game in which you make pictures move on a screen	He plays a lot of video games.	We played cricket, and we also played video games.
evp	view	noun	1	A2	the things that you can see from a place	On a clear day, the view from the top of the mountain is amazing.	The view from the window of my room is the best one.
evp	view	noun	2	B1	your opinion	We have different views about/on education.	Well, in my view, spending time in a city is more sensible.
evp	view	noun	3	B2	how well you can see something from a particular place	We had a great view of the procession.	In a few seconds, he disappeared out of my view.
evp	view	noun	4	B2	because of	In view of recent events, we have decided to cancel the meeting.	In view of what happened, I would advise you not to try to mislead people like this again]
evp	view	noun	5	C2	a position from which something can be seen	The house was hidden from view behind a wall.	The animal disappeared as unexpectedly as it came into view.
evp	view	noun	6	C2	to disapprove of something	Most bosses take a dim view of long lunches.	It's nearly impossible to see him strolling or strutting, in fact he is always striding; he is also one of the few men who still speaks with an accent, despite the fact that he perfectly knows that someone could take a dim view of him for this.
evp	view	verb	1	C2	to watch something	They were able to view the city from a helicopter.	People sit in palatial cafes and restaurants to view the beauty of that "lazy river."
evp	view	verb	2	C2	to have a particular opinion about someone or something	The policy is so far viewed as a success.	There is of course the argument of many young people: that they live in a society that oppresses them, where they cannot express themselves freely and where, whatever they do or say, they are viewed as "punks" or "idiots" by adults.
evp	viewer	noun	1	B2	someone who watches a television program	Millions of viewers will be watching the last show of the series.	He's an extraordinary person and TV viewers will love him because of his good sense of humor and his honesty.
evp	viewpoint	noun	1	C1	a way of thinking about a situation	From his viewpoint the action seemed entirely justified.	As a student, I feel concerned about the traffic issue and I asked some people about their viewpoints on the two proposals.
evp	village	noun	1	A1	a group of stores, houses, and other buildings that is smaller than a town	a small fishing village	My grandmother lived in a village and I often went there.
evp	vine	noun	1	C1	a plant with a twisted stem that climbs things or grows along the ground	The wall was covered in vines.	After following the walking path through the vines at Canon-Fronsac you could climb the Canon Mountain to have a view all over the region.
evp	vinegar	noun	1	B2	a sour liquid that is used in cooking, often made from wine	red wine vinegar	
evp	violate	verb	1	C2	to not obey a law, rule, or agreement	Countries that violate international law will be dealt with in court.	All three points strongly violate the regulations and immediate action is required.
evp	violence	noun	1	B2	when someone tries to hurt or kill someone else	an act of violence	Today, it is important that children and teenagers do something with their free time and do not get in contact with criminality and violence.
evp	violence	noun	2	C2	extreme force and energy, especially of something causing damage	Such was the violence of the explosion that three buildings collapsed.	
evp	violent	adjective	1	B2	involving violence	a violent crime	Some say that television can affect people in bad ways and sometimes causes violent incidents.
evp	violent	adjective	2	B2	using force to hurt or attack someone else	a violent criminal	Now Mary knew what happened at Jamaica Inn and it was very dangerous for her because her uncle was a violent man.
evp	violent	adjective	3	C2	sudden and causing damage	a violent explosion/storm	The violent storm was rocking the ship back and forth.
evp	violently	adverb	1	B2	in a way that involves violence	He often behaved violently and they were terrified of him.	Sometimes they behave violently because of their imprison]ment
evp	violin	noun	1	A2	a wooden musical instrument with four strings, which you hold against your neck and play by moving a bow across the strings	I've been learning the violin for the last four years.	My hobb[ies are reading and playing the violin.
evp	virgin	adjective	1	C2	Virgin land, forest, etc. has not been used or damaged by people.	50 acres of virgin woodland	The balance of nature is threatened by the construction of luxurious hotels in the middle of virgin forests.
evp	virgin	noun	1	C2	someone who has never had sex	She was a virgin at the time of her marriage.	This was Anne-Marie, 27 years old and fairly attractive. But still a virgin.
evp	virtual	adjective	1	B2	using computer images and sounds that make you think an imagined situation is real	a virtual art gallery online	However, I go far away from my family and other people and have virtual relationships.
evp	virtual	adjective	2	C1	almost a particular thing or quality	Ten years of bad government had brought about the virtual collapse of the country's economy.	However the growth of our cities and townships coupled with an exponential increase in traffic and facilities have transformed these areas into virtual no-go zones
evp	virtually	adverb	1	B2	almost	I've virtually finished.	Virtually everyone today can go out and buy their own personal computer.
evp	virtually	adverb	2	B2	in a way that uses computer images and sounds that make you think an imagined situation is real	Nowadays all these things can be experienced virtually.	I also have the possibility of making new friends: I can connect to a special site which will enable me to meet people virtually.
evp	virtual reality	noun	1	B2	when a computer produces images and sounds that make you think an imagined situation is real	virtual reality games	Magnificent scientific projects are done by computers, as well as daily shopping, communication with people in other parts of the world, games, getting any kind of information and, soon, virtual reality!
evp	virus	noun	1	B1	a program that is secretly put onto a computer in order to destroy the information that is stored on it	My computer has been acting strangely, and I suspect it's a virus.	That document was a "virus" and erased all my documents o] my computer.
evp	virus	noun	2	B2	an infectious organism too small to be seen that causes disease, or an illness that it causes	a flu virus	My "friend" Pat told everybody that my brother died and that he died because he got a virus - that's why I didn't have friends because all the people thought that I had the virus too.
evp	visa	noun	1	B1	an official mark in your passport that allows you to enter or leave a particular country	We traveled to Argentina on a tourist visa.	Tomorrow I am not going to attend the class because I have to apply for my visa at 9.00.
evp	visible	adjective	1	B2	able to be seen	You should wear something light-colored when you're cycling at night so that you're more visible.	He waited curiously for her to become visible through the fog which seemed to have gotten denser in the last few seconds.
evp	visible	adjective	2	C1	obvious or noticeable	She is a highly visible environmental spokesperson.	After about three months I noticed a visible improvement.
evp	visibly	adverb	1	C2	in a way that can be seen	He was visibly upset.	However, it is my firm conviction that if the authority reconsiders some of its regulations and take urgent steps, the number of unemployed people will be visibly reduced.
evp	vision	noun	1	B2	an idea or image in your mind of what something could be like in the future	a vision of a better society	All in all, I think you must write a new report to apologize for having been so pessimistic and having given such a bleak vision of this Festival.
evp	vision	noun	2	B2	the ability to see	He has poor vision in his left eye.	Her hands were sweating and her vision had become a blur because of the tension in the air.
evp	vision	noun	3	C1	the ability to make plans for the future that are imaginative and wise	As a leader, he lacked vision.	A man of vision, Eleftherios Venizelus played a significant role in the history of my country, as in his time it became, with few changes, what it is today.
evp	visit	verb	1	A1	to go to someone's home and spend time with them	Will you visit me when I'm in the hospital?	She visits her parents once a week.
evp	visit	verb	2	A1	to go to a place and spend a short amount of time there	We visited a few galleries while we were in Chicago.	It's a very nice place with a lot of shops and museums to visit, like the "Louvre" for example.
evp	visit	verb	3	A2	to look at a website	There's the usual invitation to visit their website.	If you want more information or you want to see photos about the art class, visit our website: www.artclass.com.
evp	visit	noun	1	B1	when you visit a place or a person	the President's visit to Argentina	The problem is that my mother arranged a visit to the doctor, and after that to the dentist.
evp	visitor	noun	1	A2	someone who visits a person or place	Ben, you have a visitor here to see you.	I did a very good meal for all of my visitors.
evp	visual	adjective	1	B2	relating to seeing	The film has some powerful visual effects.	It also provides a clear idea of how people's lives were in a particular period by showing us the visual images of that time.
evp	vital	adjective	1	B2	necessary or extremely important	Tourism is vital to the country's economy.	If you don't mind I would like to ask you some vital questions.
evp	vitality	noun	1	C2	energy and strength	At 48, he still projects an image of youth and vitality.	Full of joy and vitality, enjoying all the changes around her, Alice was as happy as she had never been before.
evp	vitally	adverb	1	C2	in a very important way	Safety at work is vitally important.	Being able to use the computer and the Internet successfully is vitally important in today's society but it will be even more important in the future.
evp	vitamin	noun	1	B2	one of a group of natural substances that you need to be healthy	a vitamin pill	On the one hand, we eat a lot of sweet or fat food, which lacks vitamins.
evp	vivacious	adjective	1	C2	A vivacious person, especially a woman, is full of energy and enthusiasm.	She is extremely vivacious.	Furthermore, there are a few qualities, which would attract me to someone, they are not essential, though: I would rather have someone as a friend who is vivacious and gregarious than someone who is withdrawn and retiring.
evp	vivid	adjective	1	B2	Vivid descriptions or memories produce strong, clear images in your mind.	He gave a very vivid account/description of life in Havana.	Each memory is still so vivid.
evp	vivid	adjective	2	B2	A vivid color is very bright.	She was wearing a vivid pink shirt.	Students would like to have some vivid colors or pictures on the walls but the best solution would be to repaint the walls.
evp	vividly	adverb	1	B2	in a vivid way	I vividly remember my first day at school.	She could vividly remember the last time he hurt her, only then it was with a razor.
evp	vocabulary	noun	1	A2	all the words you know in a particular language	a large/big/limited vocabulary	I'm sure I will improve my vocabulary and English Grammar.
evp	vocabulary	noun	2	C1	all the words that exist in a language, or that are used when discussing a particular subject	Computing has its own specialist vocabulary.	This is true because the several authors of the magazine use a significantly advanced vocabulary while writing in Greek, which is sometimes difficult even for a native Greek to understand.
evp	vocation	noun	1	C2	a strong feeling that you are right for a particular type of work, or a job that gives you this feeling	He knew that teaching was his true vocation.	He was a teacher, seeing teaching as his vocation, and nothing could boost his confidence as much as excellent students and successful results]
evp	vocational	adjective	1	C1	Vocational education and skills prepare you for a particular type of work.	The school offers both vocational and academic courses.	Moreover, learners can choose a different path, for example a technical, vocational or academic one.
evp	voice	noun	1	B1	the sounds that are made when people speak or sing	She has a very loud/quiet/soft voice.	Her voice is so clear and she has the nicest eyes which I've ever seen.
evp	voice	noun	2	B2	to become unable to speak, often because of an illness	She had a bad cold and was losing her voice.	I immediately became agitated and at the precise moment of my speech I lost my voice completely.
evp	voice	noun	3	C1	to speak loudly and angrily to someone	Even when he was angry with his children, he never raised his voice.	Not every au-pair family is pleasant. And believe me, mine was giving me hell on earth. [...] After I returned home I took some time to learn not to freak out when someone raised his voice and eventually I started to see my time in Germany as a great lesson in life.
evp	voice	verb	1	C2	to say what you think about a particular subject	Opponents also voiced concern about potential traffic produced by the project.	And in the end they voiced their wishes to re-unif[y] Germany.
evp	volcano	noun	1	B2	a mountain with a large hole at the top, which sometimes explodes and produces hot, melted rock and smoke	an extinct/active volcano	Finally, I think that a good place to go is Santorini, a beautiful island which has a volcano.
evp	volleyball	noun	1	A2	a game in which two teams use their hands to hit a ball over a net without allowing it to touch the ground	They played volleyball on the beach.	My hobbies are playing volleyball and watching TV.
evp	volume	noun	1	B1	the level of sound produced by a television, radio, etc.	Could you turn the volume up/down, please.	After we went to the disco and we danced together, but the volume of the music was too high to talk!
evp	volume	noun	2	B2	the number or amount of something, especially when it is large	I was put off by the volume of work involved.	Nowadays, marketing volume is rapidly increased in Internet business, according to one of the major newspapers.
evp	volume	noun	3	C2	a book, especially one of a set	a new dictionary in two volumes	This book which I adored as a child, and as a matter of fact, one which I often come back to, comprises seven volumes, each giving a vivid account of the adventures that the Pevensie siblings, Lucy, Edmund, Susan and Peter, encounter in the magical land of Narnia.
evp	volume	noun	4	C2	If something speaks volumes, it makes an opinion, characteristic or situation very clear without the use of words.	She said very little, but her face spoke volumes.	It remains to be seen whether the effect of stem cells when applied to humans would be the same, but the achievements speak volumes about the fact that stem cells may one day turn a new page in many people's lives and let them get rid of that humiliating label of a "disabled person."
evp	voluntarily	adverb	1	C2	If you do something voluntarily, nobody has forced you to do it.	She left voluntarily.	After he had himself discharged voluntarily from the hospital, he drove up to the cliff, and left his car there.
evp	voluntary	adjective	1	C1	Voluntary work is done without being paid and usually involves helping people.	She does voluntary work for Doctors Without Borders.	I did voluntary work for a whole year in 1998 in Britain.
evp	volunteer	noun	1	B2	a person who does something, especially helping other people, willingly and without being forced or paid to do it	a Red Cross volunteer	Well the concert was Friday night and I went there with the Red Cross volunteers, did you know I'm one of them?
evp	volunteer	verb	1	C1	to offer to do something without being asked or told to do it	Rob volunteered to look after the kids.	One of my classmates, Maria, has volunteered to talk about the different courses and summer activities that the school offers.
evp	vomit	verb	1	C2	If someone vomits, the food or liquid that was in their stomach comes up and out of their mouth.	He felt sick all day and then he suddenly started to vomit.	Some people do feel headaches and vomit if they watch television for extensive number of time.
evp	vote	verb	1	B1	to show your choice or opinion in an election or meeting by doing something such as writing a mark on an official piece of paper, using a special machine to record your choice, or putting your hand up	Who did you vote for?	Then the audience and the judges voted which country was the best.
evp	vote	noun	1	B1	when someone shows their choice or opinion in an election or meeting by doing something such as writing a mark on an official piece of paper, using a special machine to record their choice, or putting their hand up	He lost the election by twenty votes.	[T]he one who gets the most votes will get 1000 Baht as first prize.
evp	vote	noun	2	B2	a way of making a decision by asking a group of people to vote	We called a meeting in order to take a vote on the issue.	
evp	vote	noun	3	C1	when someone is officially allowed to vote	In some countries women still don't have the vote.	Women acquired the vote only 70 years ago.
evp	vote	noun	4	C2	to vote	More than 30,000 citizens cast their votes in the last city election.	When the day of the General Elections came, no woman cast her vote for James and he lost his seat to a man from a minority party, not even the man representing the Labour Party.
evp	voter	noun	1	C2	a person who votes or who has a legal right to vote, especially in an election	Of course, tax cuts are usually popular with the voters.	Low taxes seem to be the most important issue for this party and it's voters.
evp	vow	verb	1	C2	to make a serious promise or decision	They vowed (that) they would never forget her kindness.	Most definitely Yiannakis' plan had not worked out and after that episode he vowed that he would never set foot in a stadium again.
evp	vow	noun	1	C2	a serious promise or decision	marriage vows	The vows (and the rings) are exchanged after a short speech given by the priest.
evp	vowel	noun	1	B1	a speech sound that you make with your lips and teeth open, shown in English by the letters a, e, i, o, or u	A short vowel is a short sound as in the word "cup."	[In the game,] he let the students choose a vowel or consonant.
evp	voyage	noun	1	B2	a long journey, especially by ship, or in space	Cook's voyage to Australia	Besides, I have a good command of French and I speak English fluently, which might be also useful during the voyage around the world.
evp	vulnerable	adjective	1	C2	easy to hurt or attack physically or emotionally	She was a vulnerable sixteen-year-old.	Therefore they are vulnerable to being twisted by their environment, by events, or by more manipulative minds.
evp	wage	noun	1	B1	the amount of money a person regularly receives for a job, usually when paid for the number of hours worked	The factory pays low/high/fair/decent wages.	I know it is not nice for my family but I earn a good wage for that.
evp	waist	noun	1	B2	the part of the body above and slightly narrower than the hips	a small/narrow/tiny/large waist	Chris was holding his arm tightly around Claire's waist.
evp	wait	verb	1	A1	to stay in a place until someone or something arrives, or until someone or something is ready for you	I waited for her in the corridor while she went in to see the doctor.	I don't like the college break times, because I must wait 15 minutes.
evp	wait	verb	2	A2	used to say how excited you are about something that you are going to do	I can't wait to see him.	I can't wait to see you!
evp	wait	verb	3	B1	to be late so that someone has to wait for you	I'm sorry to have kept you waiting.	I'm sorry for keeping you waiting.
evp	wait	verb	4	B1	said in order to interrupt someone, or to get their attention or when you have suddenly thought of something important	Now, wait a minute - I don't agree with that.	Oh! Wait a minute...
evp	wait	verb	5	C1	to wait to discover what will happen	We'll wait and see what she says.	We will just have to wait and see. . . . .
evp	wait	verb	6	C1	to not do something until something else happens	We'll wait till Jane gets here before we start eating.	The wedding will be at midday, but because Spanish people are the most unpunctual people in the world, maybe we'll have to wait until half past twelve to start the ceremony.
evp	wait	noun	1	B2	when you stay in one place until someone or something arrives, or someone or something is ready for you	a long wait	
evp	waiter	noun	1	A1	a man who works in a restaurant, bringing food to customers	The waiter brought our drinks.	The waiter and waitress working there are kind and friendly.
evp	waitress	noun	1	A1	a woman who works in a restaurant, bringing food to customers	She's working as a waitress right now.	She is a waitress and she likes this job.
evp	walk	verb	1	A1	to move forward by putting one foot in front of the other and then repeating the action	I walked home.	I like to walk by the River Exe.
evp	walk	verb	2	B1	to walk with someone in order to guide them or keep them safe	He walked me to my house.	Then we went to the bar beside the restaurant to have a last drink and he walked me home.
evp	walk	verb	3	B1	to walk with a dog to give the dog exercise	I walk the dog twice a day.	Well, I suppose in my opinion you should walk the dog three times a day.
evp	walk	noun	1	A2	a trip that you make by walking, often for enjoyment	He had/went for/took a walk to get some air.	After dinner we watch television, and sometimes we go for a walk.
evp	walk	noun	2	B2	a trip that takes a short time/ten minutes, etc., when you walk	The post office is just a five-minute walk from the house.	A fifteen-minute walk was necessary to reach it and there were no neighbors around.
evp	walk	noun	3	C1	a path or route where people can walk for enjoyment	There are some lovely walks in the park.	The walk ends in Valli del Natisone, but from here there are 2 other different routes that can be chosen.
evp	walker	noun	1	C1	someone who walks	She is a very fast walker.	The next step is directly on the road. Here you have to learn to watch what different drivers, walkers, children, dogs, cats ... are doing and, the most important thing, to predict what they will do in the next seconds.
evp	walking	noun	1	A2	the activity of going for a walk	Walking is good exercise.	In conclusion, I think walking is an ideal way of exercise as it combines healthy body and spirit.
evp	wall	noun	1	A1	a vertical structure, often made of stone or brick, that divides or surrounds something	The walls in this apartment are so thin you can hear just about every word the neighbors say.	We will paint the wall orange.
evp	wallet	noun	1	A2	a small folding case for carrying paper money and credit cards, used especially by men	Have you seen my wallet anywhere?	I think I have left my wallet in your house.
evp	wander	verb	1	B2	to walk around slowly in a relaxed way or without any clear purpose or direction	We spent the morning wandering around the market.	If you can't afford it you can just wander around the city and enjoy meeting people.
evp	wander	verb	2	C2	If someone's attention/mind, etc., wanders, they start thinking about one subject when they should be thinking about a different subject.	I was bored and my thoughts started to wander.	His mind kept wandering off and he always found himself dreaming of her beautiful blue eyes, her long, dark eye-lashes and her soft, curled hair.
evp	want	verb	1	A1	to hope to have or do something, or to wish for something	I want some chocolate.	I just wanted to write a letter to you.
evp	war	noun	1	A2	armed fighting between two or more countries or groups, or a particular example of this	nuclear war	It was built by the British during the war.
evp	war	noun	2	C2	an attempt to stop something bad or illegal	the war against crime/drugs	Some years ago, she had given an interview o] a local channel, explaining why she chose to devote herself to the war against the destruction of the environment.
evp	ward	noun	1	B2	a room or area in a hospital, where people receiving treatment stay	She's in a ward on the fourth floor.	I spent two days alone in a ward in Biarritz's hospital.
evp	wardrobe	noun	1	B2	the set of clothes that you own, or a set of clothes worn at a particular time or for a particular situation	I'll need a new wardrobe for my new job!	Of course, jeans are always in a young person's wardrobe as they are always in fashion and now baggy trousers are becoming more and more popular.
evp	warehouse	noun	1	C2	a large building for storing goods that are going to be sold	We have several thousand of the books in our warehouse.	But new businesses are flourishing in the old warehouses by the river. Manufacturing and engineering firms have sprung in recent years and are keeping unemployement at record low.
evp	warm	adjective	1	A1	having a temperature between cool and hot	Are you warm enough or should I turn up the heat?	I like to go surfing there because the water is warm.
evp	warm	adjective	2	A2	describes clothes and covers made of a material that keeps you warm	I don't have a warm winter coat.	Remember you should wear warm clothes.
evp	warm	adjective	3	B1	friendly and loving	They're a very warm family.	He is warm and friendly.
evp	warm	verb	1	B2	to become warm or make something become warm	When the weather warms up, we'll go camping.	After they saved me, I put those gloves on to warm my hands.
evp	warmly	adverb	1	B2	in a way that keeps you warm	You're not dressed warmly enough - put a sweater on.	
evp	warmly	adverb	2	B2	in a friendly or loving way	He shook my hand warmly.	He embraced me warmly and whispered 'You wouldn't have believed me.'
evp	warmth	noun	1	B2	the heat that is produced by something	the warmth of the sun	We lay down on the sand enjoying the warmth of the sun and listening to the birds.
evp	warmth	noun	2	B2	a friendly and loving quality in someone or something	I still remember the warmth of their welcome.	They gave us so much when we were children, their love and their warmth, and now it is up to us to stay with them and give back the love we recei]ved
evp	warn	verb	1	B1	to make someone realize a possible danger or problem, especially one in the future	We were warned not to eat the fish.	I tried to warn him that there would be a lot of people looking at him.
evp	warning	noun	1	B1	something that tells or shows you that something bad may happen	There's a health warning on every pack of cigarettes.	Without any warning he pushed me]
evp	warrior	noun	1	C1	a person who has experience and skill in fighting in a war, especially in the past	These warriors used spears made from iron.	It is true that the Vikings were warriors, some would say bloodthirsty as well, but that is something I will leave to you to judge.
evp	wary	adjective	1	C2	If you are wary of someone or something, you do not trust them completely.	She's still wary of strangers.	Therefore, I strongly believe that consumers should be wary of "pots of gold" and promises made in vain. They should trust solely in what their doctors recommend for each specific case.
evp	wash	verb	1	A1	to clean something using water	wash your hands/hair	We can wash cars to earn some money for the necessary materials.
evp	wash	verb	2	A1	to clean yourself, or a part of yourself, with water and usually soap, especially your hands before a meal	Go wash up for dinner now.	
evp	washing machine	noun	1	A2	a machine for washing clothes, sheets and other things made of cloth	Could you empty/load the washing machine, please?	I want to sell my washing machine.
evp	wasp	noun	1	B2	a black and yellow flying insect that can sting you	There's a wasps' nest in that old tree.	We were sitting in the garden and suddenly a wasp entered my T-shirt.
evp	waste	noun	1	B1	an unnecessary or wrong use of money, substances, time, energy, abilities, etc.	That meeting achieved absolutely nothing - it was a complete waste of time.	I don't watch much television because I think it's a waste of time.
evp	waste	noun	2	B2	unwanted matter or material of any type, often that which is left after useful substances or parts have been removed	hazardous household waste, like leftover paint or insecticides	What I did to get it was send them an article based on some possible solutions to the problem of nuclear waste in my local area.
evp	waste	adjective	1	B1	Waste material is no longer needed and can be gotten rid of.	The Japanese recycle more than half of their waste paper.	I would really like to help you with picking up waste paper and glass from people's houses.
evp	waste	verb	1	B1	to use too much of something or use something badly when there is a limited amount of it	You waste a lot of water by taking a bath instead of a shower.	It's nice to hear that you want to go to Colombia and I'm really happy because I can tell you all the details so you won't waste time and money.
evp	waste	verb	2	C2	to be of a type or quality that someone will not understand or enjoy	Good coffee is wasted on Joe - he prefers instant.	Many older people can be heard grumbling that youth is wasted on the young, and I can see their point, though obviously I don't agree.
evp	wastebasket	noun	1	A2	a small container that stands on the floor and is used for putting pieces of waste materials in	Toss that plastic wrapper in the wastebasket.	I'm sure that whoever found the note pad threw it away into the wastebasket because it was so old and dirty.
evp	watch	verb	1	A1	to look at something for a period of time	I had dinner and watched TV for a couple of hours.	She works at the Glade and she watches television at night.
evp	watch	verb	2	B2	to be careful about something	I have to watch my weight now that I'm not exercising so much.	The odd glass of wine is fine but watch what you eat]
evp	watch	verb	3	B2	to be careful	"Watch out!" he shouted, but it was too late - she had knocked over the lamp.	I definitely know that having a cat brings inconvenience, you have to watch out for your curtains, it can scratch your sofa or your hand, but these are so few problems in comparison with all the affection it can give you.
evp	watch	noun	1	A1	a small clock that is worn on a strap around the wrist	My watch seems to have stopped - it says 10:15 but I'm sure it must be later.	I got 2 watches, flowers and some dresses.
evp	water	noun	1	A1	the clear liquid that falls from the sky as rain and is necessary for animal and plant life	hot/cold water	You have to bring some food, and a lot of water.
evp	water	noun	2	A2	an area of water, such as the ocean, a lake, or a swimming pool	The water's much warmer today - are you coming for a swim?	There are a lot of beautiful beaches with clean water.
evp	water	noun	3	C1	If a building has running water, water comes into it through pipes.	The summer homes on the island have no running water.	It is hilarious to think that at the same time people in the north of Europe were still living a primitive and uncivilized life not even able to invent an axe, the Romans managed to install running water in their huge houses.
evp	water	noun	4	C2	If criticisms, insults, etc., are like water off a duck's back to you, they do not affect you at all.	She calls him lazy and useless, but it's like water off a duck's back.	The main lesson I have learned is by looking at some people who have lived alone for most of their life and faced with neither contradiction nor argument, they stay in their ivory tower, so sure of their opinions that whatever you say is like water off a duck's back.
evp	water	noun	5	C2	If you say that an argument doesn't hold water, you mean that it can't be true.	The jury convicted her because her story just didn’t hold water.	It remains to us to prove that the opinions of some scientists are far-fetched and don't hold water.
evp	water	noun	6	C2	water from lakes, rivers, etc. that has no salt in it	These fish live in fresh water.	You find stunning white beaches, clear, fresh water lakes, isolated tropic islands, reef, rainforests, buzzing cities, challenging mountain range, bush, outback - and the desert.
evp	water	noun	7	C2	to have just enough money to live or to continue a business	With extra income from private sponsorship, the club is just about managing to keep its head above water.	I also started to realize how much she had on her plate, how very little help she had and how, at times, she had to struggle just like me to keep her head above water.
evp	water	verb	1	B2	to pour water on to plants or the soil that they are growing in	I asked my neighbor to water the plants while I'm away.	I can spend a lot of time digging, pulling up weeds, watering my plants and pruning the bushes and so on.
evp	water	verb	2	C2	If food makes your mouth water, it makes you want to eat it, sometimes making your mouth produce liquid.	The smells from the kitchen are making my mouth water.	
evp	waterfall	noun	1	B1	water, especially from a river or stream, dropping from a higher to a lower point, sometimes from a great height		We walked for an hour and arrived at the waterfall.
evp	waterproof	adjective	1	B2	not allowing water to go through	Canvas boots are all right but they're not as waterproof as leather.	Also deck shoes and a waterproof jacket for sailing; but besides that will I need any thing else?
evp	wave	verb	1	B1	to raise your hand and move it from side to side in order to attract someone's attention or to say goodbye	I waved to/at him, and he waved back.	She waved at me and I smiled.
evp	wave	verb	2	C1	to move from side to side in the air or make something move this way	The long grass waved in the breeze.	I can picture myself standing in front of the "Casa Prosada," waving my arms and cheering with all the other patriots.
evp	wave	noun	1	B1	a line of higher water that moves across the surface of an area of water, especially the ocean	At night, I listened to the sound of the waves breaking/crashing against the shore.	I already know you surf and the waves at Reserva will be huge this weekend so we will surely surf together.
evp	wave	noun	2	B2	the pattern in which some types of energy, such as sound, light and heat, are spread or carried	radio waves	Indeed, it is thought that using a mobile phone may cause brain damage owing to magnetic waves.
evp	wave	noun	3	C2	a group of people or things that arrive or happen together or in a short period of time	There has been a wave of robberies in the region.	These people, who belong mostly to the middle class, and some others like explorers [...] or youngsters seeking some adventure, produce the big wave of tourists to different countries.
evp	wave	noun	4	C2	when you suddenly feel an emotion	She felt a sudden wave of sadness.	As he counted the money, a wave of shame and horror hit Berthold.
evp	wave	noun	5	C2	to cause problems by asking difficult questions or criticizing	He has earned a reputation for making waves during political campaigns.	If we don't want to regret anything, it is time we started to make waves by scrutinizing our history.
evp	wave	noun	6	C2	when you raise your hand and move it from side to side in order to attract someone's attention or to say hello or goodbye	She gave a little wave as the train left.	
evp	way	noun	1	A2	how you do something	There are many ways of solving the problem.	I think it's the best way to relax.
evp	way	noun	2	A2	the route you take to get from one place to another	Do you know the way to the train station?	The shortest way to get there is going along Sarmiento Avenue.
evp	way	noun	3	A2	used when you say something new or on a different subject	I think we've discussed everything we need to - by the way, what time is it?	By the way, I want to buy a raincoat for my brother.
evp	way	noun	4	B1	the direction in which something is facing or travels	"Which way does the room face?" "North."	Although he had told us he knew this address, he went the wrong way.
evp	way	noun	5	B1	a distance or a period of time	We walked a long way yesterday.	I like this best because it is not a long way from home.
evp	way	noun	6	B1	used to tell someone that something is impossible	I'm sorry, but there's no way we can help you.	Don't worry, there is no way I'm going to miss it!
evp	way	noun	7	B1	the manner in which a person lives	Sleeping in hotels three or four nights a week is not an ideal way of life.	He told me about his hobbies, his way of life and especially about his love of learning languages.
evp	way	noun	8	B1	used to talk about two possibilities where the result will be the same	You can get there by train or bus - either way it'll take an hour.	If that doesn't work, you can ask them to talk to your friends' parents so you could all go together. Either way, I know you will have lots of fun this summer.
evp	way	noun	9	B2	in some way that is not stated	One way or another these bills have to be paid.	All of them made a big difference to our personal life and have affected it one way or another.
evp	way	noun	10	B2	in any way that is possible	We have to make a decision one way or the other about what needs to be done.	Even if we choose not to use computers personally, many of our transactions with society work through a computer system one way or the other.
evp	way	noun	11	B2	happening in the opposite way	I thought the older people would be more offended than the young people, but it was the other way around.	They are controlling us and not the other way around.
evp	way	noun	12	B2	to get to a place	We slowly made our way down the river.	She made her way slowly to the waiting room and patiently waited for the train to arrive.
evp	way	noun	13	B2	the complete distance	They ran all the way to school.	I drove all the way to Bergen in only one day.
evp	way	noun	14	B2	used to say that you think something is partly true	In a way, I would prefer it if they didn't come because it would mean extra work.	I think that many people would like stores to be open all the time, and it might be good in some ways.
evp	way	noun	15	B2	when one thing or feeling changes to a different one	My excitement gave way to fear when I drove a car for the first time.	The feeling of anger they first had disappeared and gave way to a feeling of disappointment.
evp	way	noun	16	C1	the manner in which someone behaves or thinks, or in which something happens	Don't be alarmed - it's just his way.	To my way of thinking, despite all the problems I have mentioned, this company will succeed.
evp	way	noun	17	C1	similarly	In the same way, there are many citizens who feel unprotected by the police.	In the same way, grandmothers may be shocked when seeing their little children wearing extravagant clothes or really short skirts.
evp	way	noun	18	C1	not at all	This is in no way your fault.	This magazine will be loved by students as it will help them learn English in the best way and in no way will students find it boring.
evp	way	noun	19	C1	as a type of something	He sent me some flowers by way of apology.	The Academy however provided nothing whatsoever by way of entertainment, though with a group of interesting young people and a little imagination this should not be a problem.
evp	way	noun	20	C1	to get what you want, although it might upset other people	She always gets her own way in the end.	They are provided with what they desire, and the majority of them are used to getting their own way.
evp	way	noun	21	C1	to do what is easiest in a difficult situation	I know you don't approve of his working methods, but why not take the easy way out this time and agree to his request?	On the other hand you cannot survive without your pay-check and to be able to both make a career and have the time to be green, sometimes you just have to take the easy way out.
evp	way	noun	22	C2	the space needed for a particular movement or action	"Sorry, am I in your way? I'll move."	As Mark Twain once said "Don't let school get in the way of your education."
evp	way	noun	23	C2	to be successful and make progress in your work	He managed to make his way in the film industry.	For each one of the famous sportsmen we recognize on television or in the newspapers, there are thousands of hopeful youngsters trying to make their way to the top.
evp	way	noun	24	C2	to try very hard to do something pleasant for someone	He went out of his way to make us feel welcome.	
evp	way	noun	25	C2	to finish a task or to get rid of something unpleasant	I'll go shopping when I've got this essay out of the way.	It was a joyful reunion and everybody was grateful to have all misunderstandings out of the way and to be one big family once more.
evp	way	noun	26	C2	used to say that someone or something does something to a large degree	They celebrate birthdays in a big way.	Tourism helps Greece's national economy - which is not at its best - in a big way.
evp	way	noun	27	C2	to be already happening	Building work is already under way.	Sociologists are well-aware of the fact and experiments are under way to counterbalance these disadvantages.
evp	way	noun	28	C2	If something gives way, it falls because it is not strong enough to support the weight on top of it.	Suddenly the ground gave way under me.	Fred's voice trailed off as he felt his legs give way beneath him.
evp	way	noun	29	C2	to be replaced by someone or something	They knocked down the old houses to make way for a new hotel.	Local markets are broken down to make way for shopping malls, which sell items for the brand conscious population of today.
evp	way	noun	30	C2	If something paves the way for something else, it makes the other thing possible.	Scientists hope that data from the probe will pave the way for a more detailed exploration of Mars.	Many celebrities engage actively in UN projects and pave the way for others to contribute.
evp	way	noun	31	C2	to learn something by experiencing a lot of problems or difficulty	He doesn’t want to take my advice, so I guess he’ll have to learn the hard way.	If you don't know the past, you're liable to live through it again as instead of deriving the lessons from someone else's experiences, you'll have to learn them the hard way, by trial and error.
evp	way	noun	32	C2	to move carefully through a crowded place, changing direction in order to avoid people or things	She threaded her way through the crowd.	And if I thread my way through the crowd along the street, I can find almost all things I want to buy, from inexpensive souvenirs to internationally known brands of suits.
evp	weak	adjective	1	B1	not physically strong	He was feeling weak after his cancer treatment.	I'm very worried because Boby isn't a big dog, and in this period he was very weak because he had some problems with a leg so I hope that he is fine!
evp	weak	adjective	2	B1	not good at something	She reads well, but her spelling is weak.	Listening is my weak point so I have to improve.
evp	weak	adjective	3	B2	not powerful, or not having a strong character	a weak leader/government	At the beginning of the story, [Mary] seemed to be a weak person, but in the end she demonstrated that she could overcome her fears in order to protect someone.
evp	weak	adjective	4	B2	A weak reason, argument, or excuse is one that you do not have enough proof to support.	He gave the weakest excuse for why he was late.	
evp	weak	adjective	5	B2	not able to support heavy things	a weak bridge	
evp	weak	adjective	6	B2	containing little taste or alcohol	weak coffee/beer	
evp	weak	adjective	7	B2	difficult to see or hear	He spoke in a weak voice.	I could hardly see with the weak light of the candle and I couldn't remember the last time I had used it.
evp	weak	adjective	8	C1	likely to fail	a weak economy	A very difficult aspect currently is our weak economy, we could nearly speak of a recession.
evp	weaken	verb	1	C1	to become less strong or powerful, or to make someone or something less strong or powerful	A number of factors have weakened the economy.	If we get rid of the factories to save the river, it is obvious that our economy will be weakened.
evp	weaken	verb	2	C2	to become less certain or determined about a decision, or to make someone less determined	I told him I wouldn't give him any more money, but then I weakened.	I felt my resistance weaken and at the end of our conversation I said that she could come over for a night but just this night, as I tried to make it very clear to her.
evp	weakness	noun	1	B2	when someone or something is not strong or powerful	Asking for help is not a sign of weakness.	I believe that I'll be able to cover my physical weakness with my experience and knowledge.
evp	weakness	noun	2	B2	a particular part or quality of someone or something that is not good or effective	There are definite weaknesses in their security arrangements.	However, I have to complain about a few weaknesses in this festival.
evp	weakness	noun	3	C2	to like a particular thing or person very much	She has a real weakness for ice cream.	
evp	wealth	noun	1	B2	a large amount of money or valuable possessions that someone has	During a successful business career, she accumulated a great amount of wealth.	On the other hand, having a mobile phone can also create social distinctions between people as it can be a sign of wealth.
evp	wealth	noun	2	C2	a large amount of something good	a wealth of experience/information	One of the advantages often mentioned is that old people have a wealth of experience, gained throughout life.
evp	wealthy	adjective	1	B2	rich	He's a very wealthy man.	But how can anyone satisfy a wealthy woman like her without giving her an expensive present?
evp	weapon	noun	1	B2	any object used in fighting or war, such as a gun, bomb, sword, etc.	chemical/nuclear/biological weapons	Technology is used to create new types of weapons.
evp	wear	verb	1	A1	to have clothing, jewelery, etc. on your body	Tracey is wearing a simple black dress.	She likes to wear new clothes.
evp	wear	verb	2	B2	to arrange or grow your hair in a particular way	She usually wears her hair in a ponytail.	I now wear my long hair loose and I dyed it black.
evp	wear	verb	3	C2	to show a particular emotion on your face.	He was wearing a smile/frown.	She was wearing a big smile on her face that reflected happiness.
evp	wear	verb	4	C2	If a feeling or explanation starts to wear thin, it becomes weaker or harder to accept.	I've warned you several times about being late and my patience is wearing thin.	Hardly could they fight against others, when their own convictions had started to wear thin.
evp	wear	verb	5	B2	If a feeling or effect wears off, it gradually disappears.	The injection the dentist gave me is starting to wear off.	And Jim, has his passion for you finally worn off?
evp	wear	verb	6	B1	to use something so much that it is damaged and cannot be used any more, or to become damaged in this way	He's already worn out two pairs of shoes this year.	My shoes are worn out too! I have to get new ones.
evp	wear	verb	7	B2	to make someone extremely tired	Standing up all day is wearing me out.	This does not mean that we have to spend hours in the gym and get home worn out.
evp	weary	adjective	1	C2	very tired	You look weary, my love.	On the other hand, if we choose to sleep, it means that we are willing to inject some power in our weary bodies and minds.
evp	weary	adjective	2	C2	bored with something or someone	She grew weary of the children and their games.	The young man was getting weary of being rejected like this, but he was still hoping that she would open her heart to him some day.
evp	weather	noun	1	A1	the conditions in the air above the Earth such as wind, rain or temperature, especially at a particular time over a particular area	bad/good/cold/dry/hot/stormy/warm/wet weather	I need it because the weather is cold.
evp	weather	noun	2	C2	to feel ill	I'm feeling a little under the weather this morning.	Why do we listen to music every time we are under the weather? As far as I am concerned, music plays a key role in my life.
evp	weather forecast	noun	1	B1	a description of what the weather will be like	Have you heard the weather forecast for tomorrow?	The weather forecast is not so good for the next two days: rain and wind.
evp	webcam	noun	1	B1	a camera that records moving pictures and sounds and allows these to be shown on the Internet as they happen	I see my grandchildren via the webcam.	
evp	Web page	noun	1	A2	a part of a Web site that can be read on a computer screen	There is a Web page with this information.	You can find the art class information on her web page.
evp	Web site	noun	1	A1	a set of pages of information on the Internet about a particular subject that have been published by the same person or organization and that often contain color pictures, video, and sound	For more information about other Cambridge titles, visit our Web site at www.cambridge.org.	So, don't wait more and phone Peter Morison, from Visualmarket Web site or ask for an interview with him at the following number 56.41.913024.
evp	wedding	noun	1	B1	a marriage ceremony and any celebrations such as a meal or a party that follow it	a wedding cake/dress/invitation/present/reception	Some couples prefer to have a traditional wedding in an old village.
evp	Wednesday	noun	1	A1	the day of the week after Tuesday and before Thursday	Did you say the meeting is on Wednesday?	I come every Wednesday.
evp	weed	noun	1	C2	a wild plant that you do not want to grow in your yard, garden, or field	Dandelions are common weeds.	A loose shutter was tapping against the wall, he walked over to close it and from the window he saw the garden overgrown with weeds.
evp	week	noun	1	A1	a period of seven days	last/this/next week	She visits her parents once a week.
evp	week	noun	2	A1	the five days from Monday to Friday when people usually go to work or school	I don't go out much during the week.	My mother has to work during the week.
evp	weekday	noun	1	A2	one of the five days from Monday to Friday when people usually go to work or school	This road is very busy on weekdays.	I can write at the weekends, because I have no time on weekdays.
evp	weekend	noun	1	A1	Saturday and Sunday, or Friday evening until Sunday night; the part of the week when many people do not work	Do you have anything planned for the weekend?	On weekends she goes to visit her uncle.
evp	weekly	adjective	1	A2	happening once a week or every week	a weekly magazine/report	I also read magazines and newspapers to get information about daily and weekly events.
evp	weep	verb	1	C2	to cry, usually because you are sad	She covered her face with her hands and wept.	Still weeping, Mary felt a tiny little hand on her arm and stared at it in astonishment.
evp	weigh	verb	1	B1	to have a heaviness of a stated amount, or to measure the heaviness of an object	How much do you weigh?	You can see monkeys that weigh only 100g.
evp	weigh	verb	2	B2	to consider something carefully, especially in order to make a decision	He needs to weigh the pros and cons of going to college.	Having weighed the pros and cons, I thought you ought to be conscious of the fact that... you're working too hard.
evp	weight	noun	1	B1	the amount that something or someone weighs	He's about average height and weight.	So let me describe Fabian: he has brown hair and his weight is about 75 kg.
evp	weight	noun	2	B2	the quality of being heavy	The shelf collapsed under the weight of the books.	The weight of the snow broke the branches of the trees.
evp	weight	noun	3	B2	something that is heavy	Try not to lift heavy weights.	[...] my long training periods in lifting weights.
evp	weight	noun	4	C2	to work as hard as other people in a group	The rest of the team complained that Sarah wasn't pulling her weight.	For instance, before your kin get all nice and comfortable, you could ask them to pull their weight around the house by doing a few jobs.
evp	weight	noun	5	C2	to be considered important and effective in influencing someone	His opinions carry a lot of weight with the scientific community.	It has become increasingly important to strive for near perfection in every move they make, the pursuit of excellence therefore carrying more weight than ever and leading to strenuous training programs.
evp	weird	adjective	1	B2	very strange and unusual, unexpected or not natural	Her boyfriend's a little weird, but she's all right.	She was hearing all sorts of weird noises.
evp	welcome	verb	1	B1	to greet someone who has arrived in a place	Both families were there to welcome us.	First, the president welcomed me and gave me my membership card.
evp	welcome	verb	2	B2	to be pleased about something and encourage or support it	The decision has been widely welcomed.	The time will arrive when all of us will accept and welcome this "beautiful machine"! the computer
evp	welcome	adjective	1	A2	said as a polite answer when someone thanks you for doing something	"It was very nice of you to help." "You're welcome."	
evp	welcome	adjective	2	B1	If you are welcome, people are pleased that you are there.	You will always be welcome here.	You know that you are very welcome in my country.
evp	welcome	adjective	3	B1	used to tell someone that they can certainly do something, if they want to	Anyone who is interested is welcome to come along.	You're very welcome to join too if you want.
evp	welcome	adjective	4	B2	If something is welcome, people are pleased about it and want it to happen.	a welcome change	And, since all these new things only make our life easier, technology is welcome.
evp	welcome	noun	1	B1	when someone is met and spoken to in a friendly way when they arrive in a place	They were given a warm welcome.	Dear Bertha, Once again I want to thank you very much for your hospitality and the warm welcome you gave me.
evp	welcome	noun	2	C2	to stay somewhere too long so that people want you to leave	I don't want to outstay my welcome.	
evp	welfare	noun	1	B2	Someone's welfare is their health and happiness.	We were concerned for our parents’ welfare when we heard about the storm in Florida.	To take care of the visitor's wishes must be a priority: his welfare has to be enforced by structural measures (facilities, services, activities) and cultural ones.
evp	welfare	noun	2	C2	help, especially money, given by the government to people who are poor or do not have jobs	She works in child welfare.	The fact is, many people now are on welfare and that keep them quiet.
evp	well	adverb	1	A1	in a successful or satisfactory way	I thought the team played well.	I play guitar very well and I love rock!
evp	well	adverb	2	A1	in addition (to)	Are you going to invite Steve as well?	Dylma goes to school every day and works as well.
evp	well	adverb	3	A2	in a complete way or as much as possible	Stir the mixture well.	I live in the capital city. [...] I know it very well and it will be a pleasure to guide you around.
evp	well	adverb	4	B2	used to say that something is likely to be true	She might well be the best person to ask.	Laura could well imagine that she would stand opposite the examiners and not answer any question in the right way.
evp	well	adverb	5	B2	used to emphasize some adjectives	The police are well aware of the situation.	Finally I would like to recommend a visit to Lampton Castle; in addition to the paintings and furniture there is now a new collection of musical instruments, which is well worth seeing.
evp	well	adverb	6	C1	used to emphasize some prepositions	The results are well above/below what we expected.	The hospital received well over 80% of the profits, and that as you can see is much more than just 60%.
evp	well	adverb	7	C1	If you may/might as well do something, it will not spoil the situation if you do that thing.	If we're not waiting for Karen, we might as well go now.	I might as well go with her and if you like, you can join us too.
evp	well	adverb	8	C2	used to say that something is not a suitable or practical thing to do	I couldn't very well tell her while he was there.	I couldn't very well tell her that without my diaries, I'd be lost and not know who I was.
evp	well	adverb	9	C2	to intend to be helpful or kind but cause problems instead	He means well, but he keeps trying to help with things he doesn't really understand.	Although these fans might mean well, in many cases they do not appear to realize that their "heroes" perhaps would like to be left alone.
evp	well	adjective	1	A1	healthy; not sick	"How are you?" "Very well, thanks."	How are you? I'm very well.
evp	well	adjective	2	B1	everything is in a good or acceptable state	I hope all is well with Jack.	I hope all's well.
evp	well	adjective	3	C1	used to say it is good or useful that something happened in a particular way	It's just as well we brought an umbrella.	All these things more than compensated for there not really being anything much to do in the evenings. Maybe that was just as well, because both the travel costs and my own pocket money expenditure had exceed the amount of money I had intended to spend.
evp	well	adjective	4	C1	used to show that you do not agree with something or that you are annoyed about something	It's all very well for her to say everything's fine, she doesn't have to live here.	That's all very well for most of the people but according to my desires i]t' not enough.
evp	well-balanced	adjective	1	B2	A well-balanced diet or meal includes all the different types of food that the body needs to be healthy.	I try to have a well-balanced diet.	So my advice for you would be to try and have some break times during the day, do some sports and follow a well-balanced diet.
evp	well-balanced	adjective	2	C1	Well-balanced people are calm and have good judgment.	She's very well-balanced considering her past.	Linda has a good temper, is well-balanced and is able to cope with unforeseen or complicated situations.
evp	well-being	noun	1	C1	when someone is healthy, happy, and comfortable	I found that yoga increased my sense of well-being.	The beautiful countryside which surrounds the fields can generate a feeling of well-being and make exercise more pleasant.
evp	well-built	adjective	1	B2	having a large, strong body	He was a well-built man, in his forties.	When I was twenty three years old, I was married to a handsome, well-built business man.
evp	well-dressed	adjective	1	B1	wearing attractive, good-quality clothes	She is a very well-dressed woman.	It is a party for the students who take part in the conference, so you do not need to be well-dressed.
evp	well-educated	adjective	1	C1	having had a good education	We have some very well-educated employees in the department.	Increasing numbers of well-educated young people are compelled to stay at home.
evp	well-equipped	adjective	1	C1	having plenty of good quality equipment	He has a very well-equipped kitchen.	There is a well-equipped gym which is supervised by experienced staff.
evp	well-informed	adjective	1	C1	knowing a lot of useful information	A well-informed visitor to our museum brought this error to our attention.	They are people with a wide range of interests, thus we should try to keep them well-informed.
evp	well-known	adjective	1	A2	famous	a well-known actor/artist/film star/singer	I would like to suggest we invite some well-known artists to next year's festival.
evp	well-off	adjective	1	C1	having a lot of money	His well-off parents sent him to a very expensive school.	If you belong to a well-off family then you are considered lucky, but if you are not this, good luck to you.
evp	well-organized	adjective	1	B2	working in an effective and successful way because of good organization	She's always extremely well-organized at work.	The events that I had attended were well-organized and were highly entertaining in many ways.
evp	well-paid	adjective	1	B2	earning a lot of money	a well-paid job	[She had an interesting and well-paid job in Paris as a fashion model.
evp	well-qualified	adjective	1	C1	having suitable experience or formal qualifications	He seems well-qualified for the job.	That is why foreign employers look for well-qualified Polish specialists.
evp	west	noun	1	A2	the direction that you face to see the sun go down	The points of the compass are North, South, East and West.	
evp	west	noun	2	A2	the part of an area that is further toward the west than the rest	We live in the west of the city.	It is situated in the west of the town and it is near the sea.
evp	west	noun	3	B2	the countries of North America and western Europe	There has been concern in/throughout the West about the effects of this measure.	
evp	west	adjective	1	A2	in or forming the west part of something	the west coast of Canada	I most enjoyed Bergen, which is o] the west coast of Norway.
evp	west	adverb	1	A2	toward the west	We traveled west.	
evp	western	adjective	1	B1	in or from the west part of an area	western Europe	It is in the western part of Kyoto.
evp	western	adjective	2	B1	relating to countries in the west part of the world, especially North America and countries in the west of Europe	western opinion/culture	Nowadays, most young people would like to wear suits and dresses like Westerners because, they're more interested in western culture.
evp	wet	adjective	1	A2	covered in water or another liquid	a wet floor	[Yester]day I was at the swimming pool and I got out with wet hair.
evp	wet	adjective	2	A2	describes weather or periods of time when rain falls	We've had wet weather all week.	The last thing I bought was a jacket because of the cold and wet weather here.
evp	wet	adjective	3	B1	describes paint, ink, or a similar substance when it has not had time to dry and become hard	The paint's still wet.	
evp	whale	noun	1	B1	a very large sea mammal that breathes air through a hole at the top of its head		You could also go to Cordoba which is a place similar to Tandil or to [...] Patagonia to fish and see the whales.
evp	wheat	noun	1	B2	a plant whose yellowish brown grain is used for making flour, or the grain itself	wheat fields	[In the painting, a man and woman are sleeping in a wheat field.
evp	wheel	noun	1	A2	a circular object fixed under a vehicle so that it moves smoothly over the ground	My bike needs a new wheel.	I ride my bicycle every day] but now its front wheel is broken.
evp	wheel	noun	2	B2	a steering wheel	You should keep both hands on the wheel when driving.	On the continent Barbara and I took turns at the wheel and early next morning we reached the Spanish border.
evp	wheelchair	noun	1	B1	a chair with wheels used by someone who cannot walk	My brother uses a wheelchair.	In the hospital, I was sentenced to be confined to a wheelchair for the rest of my life.
evp	when	adverb	1	A1	used to ask at what time something happened or will happen	"I did tell you about it." "When? I don't remember."	When are you coming to my house?
evp	whenever	adverb	1	C2	every time or any time	"Will it be okay if I do it tomorrow?" "Sure, whenever."	
evp	where	adverb	1	A1	used to ask about the place or position of someone or something	Where does he live?	Where is the college?
evp	where	adverb	2	C2	what someone thinks about you, how they expect you to behave, and how they are likely to behave	He didn’t even send me a birthday card, so I guess I know where I stand.	
evp	where	adverb	3	C2	what your opinion is about something	The Senator has made it clear where she stands on these issues.	From where I stand, some action must be taken urgently because the problems are constantly exacerbating.
evp	whereabouts	adverb	1	C2	used to ask in what place or area someone or something is	Whereabouts does he live?	
evp	whereabouts	noun	1	C2	the place where someone or something is	His whereabouts are unknown.	However, his whereabouts have been unknown for 6 years.
evp	whereby	adverb	1	C2	by which	They've introduced a system whereby people can pay back their loans slowly over time.	Those in favor of separating the genders quote studies whereby boys demonstrate better results in school without the distraction of having the fairer sex around.
evp	while	noun	1	B1	a length of time	I only stayed for a short while.	After a while, a girl invited me to play darts with her and her friends.
evp	while	noun	2	B1	a long time	I hadn’t seen Rebecca in quite a while.	But although I have what you could call "simple" tastes, it takes me quite a while to decide what to buy.
evp	while	noun	3	B2	sometimes but not often	We do go to the beach once in a while.	She did not say very much except for "oh" and "yes, yes" every once in a while.
evp	whim	noun	1	C2	when you suddenly want to do something without having a reason	We booked our beach vacation on a whim.	He brought her presents and indulged her every whim.
evp	whiskey	noun	1	B2	a strong, pale brown alcoholic drink that is made from rye, barley, or corn	Tennessee is famous for its bourbon whiskey.	We spent two nights at the inn and had the pleasure to taste all these different kinds of whiskey which have been produced in the area.
evp	whisper	verb	1	B2	to speak extremely quietly so that other people cannot hear	She leaned over and whispered something in his ear.	Around midnight, I woke up, because I heard some people whispering.
evp	whistle	verb	1	B2	to make a sound by breathing air out through a small hole made with your lips, or through a whistle	On the days when she wore a skirt the men on the building site would whistle at her.	I stood up and many of my companions clapped their hands, although some of them whistled in a very rude way.
evp	whistle	noun	1	B2	a small, simple instrument that makes a sound when you blow through it	The referee blew his whistle to end the game.	I was so nervous and I was thinking about that scream and those whistles, so I decided to go outside to have a look.
evp	white	adjective	1	A1	being the color of snow or milk	a white T-shirt	Do not wear white clothes!
evp	white	adjective	2	A2	White wine is a pale yellow color.	Would you prefer red or white wine?	Please don't bring anything or if you w[ant to,] bring one bottle of white wine.
evp	white	adjective	3	B1	Someone who is white has skin that is pale in color.	He had a black mother and a white father.	He had just been beaten by a group of white men.
evp	white	adjective	4	C2	having a pale face because you are ill or you are feeling shocked	He was white with shock.	However, when she opened the door, her face went white.
evp	white	adjective	5	C2	relating to white people	the white community	As most British in those days, his private life lay in a small circle of the white community.
evp	white	noun	1	A2	the color of snow or milk	In some countries it is traditional for a bride to wear white.	Robbie, w] will paint my bedroom in the color white.
evp	whole	adjective	1	A2	complete, including every part	I spent the whole day cleaning.	Did you know that almost the whole class came to my party.
evp	whole	noun	1	B1	generally	We've had a few problems, but on the whole we're very happy.	On the whole I don't like watching television.
evp	whole	noun	2	B2	when considered as a group and not in parts	The population as a whole is getting healthier.	To sum up, I can say that the greatest ever invention is the invention of computers, that has affected both individuals and society as a whole.
evp	whole	adverb	1	C2	as a single object and not in pieces	The baby bird swallowed the worm whole.	
evp	wholeheartedly	adverb	1	C2	in a completely enthusiastic way	I agreed wholeheartedly with what she said.	First of all, I have to say that I agree with you wholeheartedly.
evp	wholly	adverb	1	C2	completely	His behavior is wholly unacceptable.	As far as money is concerned, I think that people who only care about earning lots of money do not wholly understand the question.
evp	why	adverb	1	A1	used to ask about the reason for something	"I'm going home." "Why?"	Why couldn't you come?
evp	why	adverb	2	A2	used to make a suggestion	Why don't you come with us?	Why don't we play tennis?
evp	why	adverb	3	B1	used to talk about the reason for something	I don't know why she isn't here.	Also, you didn't say why the photography and painting courses were so popular.
evp	why	adverb	4	B1	used to agree with something that someone has suggested	"Let's get some ice cream."  "Sure, why not?"	She said, I have two tickets for a new film with Tom Cruise - would you like to come with me? Well I said why not, so I went with her to see this film.
evp	wicked	adjective	1	C2	extremely bad and morally wrong	a wicked man	[They went to great pains to do so, as he was indeed a wicked and cunning man, but he had not counted on Caroline's and James' superior intelligence, and the documents were eventually found in an empty jar in the kitchen.
evp	wide	adjective	1	A2	having a larger distance from one side to the other than is usual or expected	a wide river/road	I'm going to stay here two weeks in a big hotel near a wide river.
evp	wide	adjective	2	B1	having a distance of 5 miles/10 feet, etc. from one side to the other	The swimming pool is 20 feet wide.	From the two meters wide window I can overlook the city and the lake.
evp	wide	adjective	3	B1	a lot of different types of thing	The library has a wide range of information.	There is a very wide choice of activities!
evp	wide	adverb	1	B2	farther than usual or as far as possible	She ran toward me, her arms open wide.	She came into the living room and saw me standing on the stairs with my eyes opened wide.
evp	wide	adverb	2	C2	to be completely awake	"Is Oliver awake yet?" "Yes, he's wide awake and running around his bedroom."	Sometimes, when I have put my children to bed, half an hour later an aircraft flies over and my two-year-old daughter is wide awake again.
evp	widely	adverb	1	B2	including a lot of different places, people, subjects, etc.	They have both traveled widely.	It is widely known that the Japanes[e] and Chines[e] people are often very healthy.
evp	widely	adverb	2	B2	to be very different	Prices vary widely from store to store.	People's opinions on the protection of the environment differ widely.
evp	widen	verb	1	B2	to become wider, or to make something wider	They are widening the road.	So I suggest widening the main road]
evp	widen	verb	2	B2	to increase or make something increase in number or degree	Why not widen the discussion to include other points of view?	It could help me to widen my knowledge about stamps.
evp	widespread	adjective	1	C1	affecting or including a lot of places, people, etc.	a widespread problem	It is because of widespread use of deep-freezing and preservatives.
evp	widow	noun	1	B2	a woman whose husband has died and who has not married again	Many of her friends are also widows.	Roland was a rich man and now you are a rich widow.
evp	width	noun	1	B2	the distance across something from one side to the other	It is 5 inches in width.	The width of a car hinders driving on the pavement, for instance.
evp	wield	verb	1	C2	to hold a weapon or tool and look as if you are going to use it	They were confronted by a man wielding a knife.	To start with, its special effects are superb, transporting the spectator into a new world of fascinating creatures, who wield mighty weapons to get citizens free from slavery and injustice.
evp	wield	verb	2	C2	to have a lot of influence or power over other people	People in his position wield a lot of power over our lives.	Fortunately, my parents do not wield authority over me and my siblings like dictators.
evp	wife	noun	1	A1	the woman a man is married to	I met Greg's wife for the first time.	How are you, and how are your wife and children?
evp	wild	adjective	1	A2	A wild animal or plant lives or grows in its natural environment and not where people live.	a wild dog	You can see wild animals.
evp	wild	adjective	2	B2	describes land that is not used to grow crops and has few people living in it	a wild mountainous region	This area is still wild.
evp	wild	adjective	3	B2	very energetic and not controlled	a wild party	When Jorge went up on the stage to get his award, he sang the song and the crowd went wild!
evp	wild	adjective	4	C2	If someone, especially a child, runs wild, they behave as they want to and no one controls them.	Their nine-year-old son is left to run wild.	My parents decided to move to a small village when I was just a kid. Shortly after we settled in] my parents decided that I was running wild and that it was time for me to receive some sort of education.
evp	wild	adjective	5	C2	If someone's imagination runs wild, they are not able to control their thoughts.	It was getting dark and my imagination was starting to run wild.	Her imagination started to run wild and she began to think about the dark corridors, the secret passages and the obscure dungeons that the castle might hide.
evp	wild	adjective	6	C2	something that you say which is not based on facts or careful thought	I’ll make a wild guess but I don't really know.	And in regard to the future, I am afraid, we only can make wild guesses about what is waiting for us out there.
evp	wild	adjective	7	C2	with a lot of wind, rain, etc.	a wild and stormy night	They played with the shadows of the night and danced with the sound of a wild wind.
evp	wild	adjective	8	C2	bigger or better than anything you could imagine or hope for	The house was beyond my wildest dreams.	[It] was beyond my wildest dreams.
evp	wild	adjective	9	C2	used to say that something is better than anything you could imagine or hope for	Never in my wildest dreams had I thought I would be offered a starring role in a Hollywood movie.	Not even in my wildest dreams could I have imagined that finding a diary was to have such fortunate consequences for me.
evp	wilderness	noun	1	C2	a place that is in a completely natural state without houses, industry, roads, etc.	a beautiful mountain wilderness	At 7 o'clock we left our tiny hotel to head for the wilderness.
evp	wildlife	noun	1	B1	animals and plants that grow independently of people in their natural environment	a documentary on Peruvian wildlife	The countryside will be the best place because we will be able to see the old castles, mountains and natural areas with forests and wildlife.
evp	wildly	adverb	1	B2	in a very energetic way and without control	He was dancing wildly.	When I arrived at the party, I knew immediately that something was wrong ... people were sleeping on the floor, the house furniture was all torn apart, and people with beverages were dancing wildly.
evp	wildly	adverb	2	C2	extremely	It's a wildly popular video game.	Funding field trips would mean increased resources for our wildly successful guest appearances, as well as the budget needed to foster our skilled debaters.
evp	will	noun	1	B2	the mental power used to control and direct your thoughts and actions, or a determination to do something, despite any difficulties or opposition	From an early age she had a very strong will.	How would you find the will to look for another job?
evp	will	noun	2	C1	what someone wants to happen	Against their will, they were forced to hold a meeting.	But if you go and learn a language against your will, then it's better not to go at all.
evp	will	noun	3	C2	an official statement of what a person has decided should be done with their money and property after their death	Have you made a will yet?	This uncle of mine, rich as he was, decided to make a will some years before his death.
evp	willingly	adverb	1	B2	in a willing way	He would willingly risk his life for her.	Of course, I'll willingly help you, even though I'm going to stay there only for a couple of weeks.
evp	willingness	noun	1	B2	the state of being willing	I was impressed by her willingness to listen.	Again I appreciated your sense of humor and willingness to keep an open home.
evp	willpower	noun	1	C2	the ability to make yourself do difficult things or to stop yourself from doing enjoyable things that are bad for you	It takes great willpower to lose weight.	In the end, I think, it all comes down to willpower and intelligence.
evp	win	verb	1	A2	to get the most points in a competition or game	Which team won the Superbowl last year?	Portugal is in Euro 2004 and I want Portugal to win this tournament.
evp	win	verb	2	A2	to get a prize in a game or competition	He won $1,000 for his short story.	I was happy because I won a computer.
evp	win	verb	3	B1	to get the most votes in an election	Who do you think will win the election?	
evp	win	verb	4	B2	to be successful in a war, fight, or argument	They won the war, but with heavy losses.	After a short battle on the floor I won the fight.
evp	win	verb	5	C2	to get approval/respect/support, etc. because of your skill and hard work	Her plans have won the support of many local people.	In my book, they should be prepared to work hard to win their colleagues' respect before they start to earn real money.
evp	win	noun	1	C1	when someone wins a game, competition or election	It was the team's sixth consecutive win this season.	As far as I am concerned, we are a perfect team and we would like to have more spare time as a prize for the consecutive easy wins we had.
evp	wind	noun	1	A1	a natural, fast movement of air	There isn't enough wind to fly a kite.	There are coconut trees near the sea and sometimes gentle winds blew through them]
evp	wind	noun	2	C2	to take a risk	I decided to throw caution to the wind and book a ticket to India.	They just threw caution to the wind, and did what they wanted.
evp	winding	adjective	1	B2	describes a path, road, river, etc. that repeatedly turns in different directions	There's a very long, winding path leading up to the house.	Moreover, I agree with Chris when he thinks the route through the mountain may be very difficult: it is a winding and quite hazardous road.
evp	window	noun	1	A1	a space usually filled with glass in the wall of a building or in a vehicle, to allow light and air in and to allow people inside the building to see out	Is it all right if I open/close the window?	Near the window there are some flowers.
evp	window	noun	2	B1	a separate area on a computer screen that shows information and that you can move around	to minimize/maximize a window	
evp	windshield	noun	1	B1	the window at the front end of a car, bus, etc.	A rock cracked my windshield as I was driving home.	Now you can see the drivers in their cars looking like zombies through the windshield and breathing smog and you realize how much the "bicycling tour" to work in the mornings is worth to you.
evp	windsurfing	noun	1	B1	a sport in which you sail across water by standing on a board and holding onto a large sail	The channel is a popular area for windsurfing.	On Thursday if the weather is better we'll go windsurfing.
evp	windy	adjective	1	A2	with a lot of wind	It was a windy night.	It was sunny and a little windy, so it wasn't too hot.
evp	wine	noun	1	A1	an alcoholic drink that is usually made from grapes, or sometimes from other fruit	a wine cellar/glass	I like to drink wine or beer.
evp	wing	noun	1	B1	one of the body parts that a bird or insect uses to fly	The eagle took off, flapping its wings to gain height.	I enjoyed this place because there were a lot of trees and a lot of birds with colorful wings.
evp	wing	noun	2	B2	one of the two long, flat parts at the sides of an aircraft that allow it to fly	I could see the plane's wing out of the window.	Everything looked good but then, he made a wrong move and crashed into another plane with the wing.
evp	wing	noun	3	C2	a group of people in an organization or political party who have the same beliefs	the conservative/progressive wing of the party	
evp	wink	verb	1	C2	to quickly close and then open one eye, in order to be friendly or to show that something is a joke	She smiled and winked at me.	With her blue eyes she looks straight at me and because one eye is slightly closed I always feel that she winks at me.
evp	wink	noun	1	C2	to not have any sleep	I was so excited last night - I didn't sleep a wink.	Nevertheless, due to the fact that I hadn't slept a wink the previous night, I began to fall asleep.
evp	winner	noun	1	A2	someone who wins a game or competition	There'll be a prize for the winner.	The winners will get wonderful prizes.
evp	winter	noun	1	A1	the coldest season of the year, between fall and spring	Last winter we went skiing.	I love my town because in winter I can go skiing.
evp	wipe	verb	1	B2	to clean or dry something by moving a cloth across it	She wiped her face with a towel.	If you accept my application, I can join any group you've made to help clean the street, and wipe the walls or doors of a public place.
evp	wipe	verb	2	B2	to remove dirt, water, a mark, etc. from something with a cloth or your hand	He wiped a tear from his eye.	My father gave her a tissue and she wiped her tears away.
evp	wipe	verb	3	C2	to destroy something completely	The earthquake wiped out many villages.	We are able to cure diseases that hundreds of years ago would wipe out thousands of people, as, for instance, the Black Plague did.
evp	wire	noun	1	B2	thin, metal thread used to fasten things or to make fences, cages, etc.	a wire fence	
evp	wire	noun	2	B2	a long,  thin piece of metal thread, usually covered in plastic, that carries electricity, telephone signals, etc.	Don't touch those wires whatever you do - they're live.	After carrying stuff like lights, microphones, wires and some other equipment for about three hours, I was exhausted.
evp	wisdom	noun	1	B2	the ability to use your knowledge and experience to make good decisions and judgments	As a coach, he says, he often gleans wisdom from his students.	However, these two subjects are vital for us to obtain the wisdom needed in later life.
evp	wisdom	noun	2	C1	what most people believe	These ideas about child care go against the conventional wisdom.	Thus, against conventional wisdom, I think that while a lot of adult problems are caused by money or the lack of it, it is really the ability to deal with money and to see money as a means rather than an end.
evp	wise	adjective	1	B2	having or showing the ability to make good judgments, based on a deep understanding and experience of life	I think you made a wise choice.	So, you are coming to my country, that's a wise decision.
evp	wisely	adverb	1	C1	in a wise way	She wisely advised me to wait.	In my opinion, computer learning offers very interesting opportunities, especially to learn new languages, but such a powerful medium as the computer should be used wisely.
evp	wit	noun	1	C1	the ability to say things that are funny and clever	a woman of great intelligence and wit	His wit and charm drew many people's attention to the topic and we gained a deeper insight into the tourist industry.
evp	witch	noun	1	C1	in stories, a woman who has magical powers that she uses to help or harm people	The story begins with an old witch living in the forest.	A famous actress and her friend, a librarian, get the "elixir of eternal youth" from the mysterious witch (Isabella Rossellini) and then their troubles begin...
evp	withdraw	verb	1	C1	to take money out of a bank account	She withdrew $50.	Apart from this, without credit cards I would have to look for a bank to withdraw money, and this is not very easy for a student.
evp	withdraw	verb	2	C1	to remove something, especially because of an official decision	This product has been withdrawn from the store's shelves and will no longer be sold.	But the government stepped back, withdrew the proposal and fired three ministers.
evp	withdraw	verb	3	C2	to decide that you will not now be in a race, competition, etc.	Christie was forced to withdraw from the race because of injury.	
evp	withdrawal	noun	1	C2	when you take money out of a bank account	The bank became suspicious after several large withdrawals were made from his account in a single week.	
evp	withdrawal	noun	2	C2	when something is taken away so that it is no longer available, or when someone stops being involved in an activity	Doctors demanded the withdrawal of the drug (from the market) after several cases involving dangerous side-effects were reported.	
evp	withdrawn	adjective	1	C2	quiet and not talking to other people	As winter dragged on, he seemed sadder and more withdrawn.	I should have been friendlier and more interested, rather than quiet and withdrawn.
evp	withstand	verb	1	C2	to not be harmed or broken by something	a bridge designed to withstand earthquakes	In the past older or weaker organisms unable to withstand certain diseases had to die.
evp	witness	noun	1	B2	a person who sees an event happening, especially a crime or an accident	The police are appealing for witnesses to the accident to come forward.	Furthermore, the witness was assassinated.
evp	witness	verb	1	B2	to see something happen, especially an accident or crime	Did anyone witness the attack?	Finally, if you witness an accident you can inform the police quickly, which can save lives.
evp	witty	adjective	1	B2	using words in an intelligent and funny way	a witty comment/remark	I have read it many times and the author's witty remarks and elegant style have always been a source of entertainment to me.
evp	wolf	noun	1	B2	a wild animal of the dog family	Wolves hunt in groups known as packs.	Before we knew it, Nick leapt onto the wolf and they started to fight.
evp	woman	noun	1	A1	an adult female person	a 30-year-old woman	Your teacher will be a woman.
evp	wonder	verb	1	B1	to ask yourself questions or express a wish to know about something	Shouldn't you call home? Your parents will be wondering where you are.	You might wonder why I decided to do so.
evp	wonder	verb	2	B1	used in phrases, at the beginning of a request, to make it more formal and polite	I wonder - could you help me carry these books?	I wonder if there is a way that I would be able to cover the work I have missed?
evp	wonder	noun	1	B2	it is not surprising	No wonder the children are excited - this is the first time they've been abroad.	No wonder that people are more tired and are not interested in reading books as much as in the past.
evp	wonderful	adjective	1	A2	extremely good	He's a wonderful cook.	I hope you will have a wonderful time.
evp	wood	noun	1	A2	the hard material that trees are made of	He gathered some wood to build a fire.	It is long and it is made of wood.
evp	wooden	adjective	1	A2	made of wood	The house was surrounded by a tall, wooden fence.	We will bring some big wooden tables and chairs.
evp	woodland	noun	1	C2	an area of land with a lot of trees	A lot of the area is woodland.	Our house, which was quite spacious, was near a river and surrounded by beautiful rolling hills and extensive woodland.
evp	woods	noun	1	A2	an area of land covered with a thick growth of trees	We went for a walk in the woods after lunch.	The three of us slept together in a small tent, which was located in the heart of the woods.
evp	wool	noun	1	A2	thick thread or material that is made from the hair of a sheep	The blankets are made of wool and the sheets are cotton.	I got many presents: a camera, a wool sweater and other things.
evp	word	noun	1	A1	a group of letters or sounds that mean something, or a single letter or sound that means something	What's the word for goat in French?	When I go to college, I like to learn more English words.
evp	word	noun	2	B1	to not believe/understand/hear/say, etc. anything	I don't believe a word he says.	Peter took my hand and asked me to leave, so I said goodbye to Roger and his girlfriend - who never said a word.
evp	word	noun	3	B2	used to explain what something means in a different way	He said he's too busy - in other words, he isn't interested.	They had had a great time before and had drunk too much alcohol. In other words, they were totally drunk.
evp	word	noun	4	C1	to promise someone something	Paolo gave me his word that he wouldn't tell anyone.	I give you my word that it will never happen again.
evp	word	noun	5	C1	to believe what someone says without any proof	Take my word for it - this curry is very hot!	You can take my word for it that she is absolutely capable of carrying out this job - fond of children, patient, good-natured and competent.
evp	word	noun	6	C1	to do what you said you would do	He agreed to come and I'm sure he'll keep his word.	It turned out that the company that had been hired to organize it did not keep their word.
evp	word	noun	7	C2	to talk to someone for a short time	If you have a minute, could I have a word?	Tom was not really in the mood to have a word with that annoying man.
evp	word	noun	8	C2	using the exact words that were originally used	She repeated word for word what he had told her.	This is word for word the beginning of the story that Katrina handed to her French teacher.
evp	word	noun	9	C2	used when you repeat what someone said	In the manager's words, the game was "a total disaster."	In the immortal words of the bard "... if music be the food of love....... play on!"
evp	word	noun	10	C2	to be so surprised, angry or moved by something that you do not know what to say	This prize is such an honor and so unexpected - I am lost for words.	I was so enraged that I was lost for words for quite a long time.
evp	word	noun	11	C2	not knowing what to say	The question was unexpected and she was temporarily at a loss for words.	If it was James I would be at a loss for words, I didn't know what to tell him.
evp	word	noun	12	C2	by one person telling another telling you	Students learned of the center by word of mouth.	In the past news traveled mostly by word of mouth and it took days and sometimes weeks before a person would become aware of an occurrence on the other end of the world.
evp	work	noun	1	A1	the place where you go to do your job	Do you have far to travel to work each day?	I will finish work at five o'clock.
evp	work	noun	2	A1	something you do as a job to earn money	Has she gotten any work yet?	[I] like my work.
evp	work	noun	3	A2	the activities that you have to do at school, for your job, etc.	I'll have to take this work home with me and finish it there.	I have a lot of work to do this week.
evp	work	noun	4	B1	when you use physical or mental effort to do something	Carrying heavy loads around all day is hard work.	The lessons are very good but the teacher is going very quickly. It will be hard work.
evp	work	noun	5	B2	a painting, book, piece of music, etc.	The museum has many works by Picasso as well as other modern painters.	We agreed that something had to be done to promote the popularity of local films, some of them being great works of art.
evp	work	verb	1	A1	to do a job, especially the job you do to earn money	She worked as a cleaner at the hospital.	She works from Monday to Friday.
evp	work	verb	2	A2	If a machine or piece of equipment works, it is not broken.	Our telephone isn't working.	I tried to phone her house, but her phone wasn't working, so I decided to go to her house.
evp	work	verb	3	B1	If something works, it is effective or successful.	Her plan to increase sales worked.	I changed cars several times to fool the police. It worked very well.
evp	work	verb	4	C1	to know how to use a machine or piece of equipment	Do you know how to work the video camera?	At that time, I also learned how to work the lighting during the play.
evp	work	verb	5	B2	to try hard to achieve something	You need to work at improving your writing.	In my opinion, this is the part our college has to improve and to work at.
evp	work	verb	6	B2	to spend time repairing or improving something	Tim loves working on old cars.	I believe that it would be best to paint a picture of me in the garage working on my new car.
evp	work	verb	7	B2	to do a calculation to get an answer to a mathematical question	We need to work out the total cost of the project.	I had to work out all my figures two times to make sure that my accounts were accurate.
evp	work	verb	8	B1	to exercise in order to improve the strength or appearance of your body	Heidi works out in the gym two or three times a week.	At the time I used to work out and I saw that he was looking at me while I was doing my exercises.
evp	work	verb	9	B2	If a problem or a complicated situation works out, it ends in a successful way.	We were worried that the event would be disorganized, but it all worked out in the end.	I hope you follow my instructions and you'll see how everything works out fine.
evp	workaholic	noun	1	C2	someone who works too much and does not have time to do anything else	My husband's a workaholic who never gets home until late at night.	Unless you are a real "workaholic," and there are some of them out there, working like a slave to get more money doesn't pay off.
evp	workbook	noun	1	A2	a book with questions and spaces to write on, which is used by students for learning a subject	I need to get the workbook for my French class.	I left my workbook in your house. I really need it because I must finish my homework to show it to the teacher tomorrow!
evp	worker	noun	1	A2	someone who works for a company or organization but does not have a powerful position	factory workers	There is a man with a suitcase and he says: "Hi, I'm a worker in the airport and I found this suitcase."
evp	worker	noun	2	B1	someone who works quickly/slowly/well, etc.	He's kind of a slow worker, but he is very thorough.	I'll recommend you as a hard worker and a very nice person.
evp	workforce	noun	1	C1	all the people who work for a company or organization	We have a highly skilled workforce.	Before giving them rewards, companies need to train their workforce and identify their potential.
evp	workforce	noun	2	C2	all the people in a country who are able to do a job	10% of the workforce are unemployed.	There is hardly a nation without representatives in Germany's workforce.
evp	working	adjective	1	B1	relating to your job	working hours	But now because of my job, I always wear black or dark blue suits during working hours.
evp	working	adjective	2	B2	knowledge about something that is good enough to be useful	She has a working knowledge of German and Russian.	Furthermore, I have a working knowledge of English, Spanish, Catalan and Italian.
evp	the working class	noun	1	C1	the social group consisting of people who do usually physical work and who often do not get paid much money	He sees the candidate's comments as an attack on the working class.	A member of the working class, for example, was not expected to wear something smart, as he didn't represent the company.
evp	working-class	adjective	1	C1	belonging to or relating to the working class	Working-class families can't afford these prices.	And young people from working-class families in the suburbs of Paris will make a point of having the latest fashion shoes or trousers.
evp	workout	noun	1	B1	a period of physical exercise	a light workout	He teaches me all the workouts every day.
evp	workplace	noun	1	C1	the place where you work	We are trying to get rid of bullying in the workplace.	Nowadays, our jobs consume more and more of our time so a good atmosphere at the workplace is important.
evp	workshop	noun	1	C1	when a group of people meet to learn more about something by discussing it and doing practical exercises	a workshop on crime prevention	All in all, I thoroughly enjoyed this event, but I think there ought to be more computers provided and the numbers of participants to a single workshop should be limited.
evp	world	noun	1	A1	the Earth and all the people, places and things on it	She's traveled all over the world.	I like traveling and discovering new places i] the world.
evp	world	noun	2	A2	your life and experiences	His whole world fell apart when she left.	I like this room because it's "my world" and because it is very big.
evp	world	noun	3	B1	the people and things that are involved in a particular activity or subject	the entertainment world	Well, as you know, I'm not very interested in the fashion world, so I rarely spend much time shopping for clothes.
evp	world	noun	4	C1	to have the advantages of two different situations	Living in the country and working in the city you have the best of both worlds.	Only those that can afford to live in the suburban areas can combine the best of both worlds and they tend to be rather affluent.
evp	world	noun	5	C2	to be of extremely good quality	Their chocolate cake is just out of this world!	The dessert trays are out of this world.
evp	world	noun	6	C2	to make someone feel much happier or healthier	That swim has done me a world of good.	I feel a year abroad would do her a world of good in letting her care for children, learn to speak English properly, and see life from different aspects.
evp	world	noun	7	C2	If something is not the end of the world, it will not cause very serious problems.	It won't be the end of the world if I don't get this job.	
evp	world	noun	8	C2	to be very happy	I had just won a major tournament and I was feeling on top of the world.	I felt like I was on top of the world and nothing could take that happiness from me.
evp	worldwide	adjective	1	B2	existing or happening in all parts of the world	a worldwide success	You can visit the main monuments of Paris, known worldwide, like Notre-Dame Cathedral or the Eiffel Tower, built in 1903.
evp	worm	noun	1	B2	a small creature with a long, thin, soft body and no legs	Blackbirds eat worms, insects, and berries.	Fishing is my hobby and that's why I bought these plastic worms, that are not very good - it's better to use live worms!
evp	worried	adjective	1	A2	anxious because you are thinking about problems or unpleasant things that might happen	She's really worried about her son.	I'm worried about your health.
evp	worrying	adjective	1	B2	making you feel unhappy and afraid	It's a very worrying situation.	But the most worrying thing about this matter is you.
evp	worse	adjective	1	A2	(comparative of bad) more unpleasant or difficult than something else that is also bad	The test was worse than I expected.	It takes me more than one hour to get to work every day. In the evening it is even worse.
evp	worse	adjective	2	B1	to become more ill, unpleasant, difficult, severe, etc. than before	My cold seems to be getting worse.	I thought, it couldn't get worse.
evp	worse	adjective	3	B2	used to emphasize how unpleasant, difficult, severe, etc. something is becoming	The economic climate is getting worse and worse.	As we know because of the development of factories and businesses all over the world the air that we are using is getting worse and worse.
evp	worse	noun	1	C1	something that is more unpleasant or difficult	"How was the movie?" "I’ve seen worse."	Going down the cliff was hard, but they had seen worse.
evp	worse	adverb	1	B1	comparative of badly	He did worse than he was expecting to on his driving test.	
evp	worse	adverb	2	B2	to make a situation more difficult, unpleasant, etc.	To make matters worse, our car broke down!	To make matters worse, the newspaper said they only played for thirty-five minutes.
evp	worsen	verb	1	C1	to become worse or to make something become worse	His condition suddenly worsened last week.	This changed and worsened severely over the last twenty years.
evp	worship	verb	1	C1	to pray to God or a god or to regularly attend religious ceremonies	In the various regions of India, Hindus worship different gods and observe different religious festivals.	The Revolution was of such importance because Greece became a free country again and the people were free to talk, worship their God and have Greek schools.
evp	worship	verb	2	C1	to love and admire someone or something very much	She worshipped her mother.	Firstly, many famous people are considered as idols who are worshipped and imitated, which might make them believe they are important, especially when they have a certain media presence.
evp	worship	noun	1	C2	the way a person prays or the religious ceremonies people attend	The law would allow workers to take either Saturday or Sunday off as a day of worship.	There were Holy Masses celebrated by him in several cities and places of worship.
evp	worst	adjective	1	A2	(superlative of bad) the most unpleasant, difficult or severe	That was the worst meal I've ever eaten.	And you, what is your worst gift?
evp	worst	noun	1	B1	the most unpleasant or difficult thing, person, or situation	That was the worst I've seen him play in several years.	This situation was the worst I have lived through]
evp	worst	noun	2	B2	used to emphasize the worst thing, situation, etc.	We had no food or light, but worst of all, we had no water.	And worst of all, her mother had been always against that relationship and had given her advice many times.
evp	worst	noun	3	C2	to worry that something very bad will happen or that something very bad has happened	When there was no sign of the children, the rescuers feared the worst.	Her parents had been quarrelling constantly now for almost half a year, and she feared the worst.
evp	worst	adverb	1	B2	(superlative of badly) the most badly	Small businesses have been worst hit by the recession.	
evp	worthless	adjective	1	C1	not important or useful	He made me feel stupid and worthless.	One important aspect is, of course, that they will feel worthless.
evp	worthless	adjective	2	C2	having no value in money	The painting's a fake - it's completely worthless.	But many people keep completely worthless things for sentimental reasons.
evp	worthwhile	adjective	1	B2	useful and enjoyable, despite needing a lot of effort	She considers teaching a worthwhile career.	It's a worthwhile trip. You'll have the opportunity to visit beautiful places and learn lots of history.
evp	worthy	adjective	1	C1	deserving respect, admiration or support	He is unlikely to succeed in getting his bill through Congress, however worthy it is.	The performers are all neatly dressed and on the whole, they have all made a worthy effort.
evp	worthy	adjective	2	C2	deserving to be given attention, noticed, etc.	Two points in this report are especially worthy of notice.	Try as I might, getting good grades was always met more with a sense of mission accomplished - duly noted - than a feat worthy of congratulations.
evp	would-be	adjective	1	C2	wanting or trying to be	a would-be artist/politician	Her schoolmates were greatly surprised that a would-be lawyer with a promising career like her had made such a decision.
evp	wound	noun	1	B2	an injury, especially one that is made with a knife or bullet	a gunshot wound	Rollo discovered that his best friend was implicated in the penicillin racket: the racketeer would put sand into penicillin without worrying about the great suffering that they caused to people who needed penicillin for their wounds.
evp	wound	verb	1	B2	to injure someone, especially with a knife or gun	The police chief was badly wounded in the explosion.	Harry was wounded on his leg.
evp	wrap	verb	1	B1	to cover or surround something with paper, cloth or other material	She wrapped the present and tied it with ribbon.	
evp	wrap	verb	2	B2	to cover someone with material in order to protect them	She wrapped the baby in a blanket.	After a few seconds I gathered my wits and wrapped the towel around myself again.
evp	wrap	verb	3	B1	to fold paper, cloth, etc. around something to cover it	Have you wrapped up Jenny's present?	It was wrapped up in paper with a red ribbon.
evp	wreck	verb	1	C2	to destroy or badly damage something	The explosion wrecked several cars and damaged nearby buildings.	In addition, they agree that the solution to the traffic is of utmost importance in a big city, because noise and pollution from car exhaust pipes wreck the nerves of city dwellers.
evp	wreck	noun	1	C2	a vehicle or ship that has been destroyed or badly damaged	Divers exploring the wreck managed to salvage some coins and jewellery.	We turned around and saw fumes rising in the air from the wreck of the plane.
evp	wreck	noun	2	C2	someone who is in a bad physical or mental condition	I was a complete wreck by the end of my exams.	So much of what I really appreciate in this life is connected to music and the events that surround it, so a loss of that would totally devastate me and turn me into a wreck!
evp	wreckage	noun	1	C2	the parts that remain of a car, ship, or aircraft that has been destroyed	Two survivors were pulled from the wreckage.	I learned from the diary that other passengers and the second pilot hadn't survived and that he had buried them near the wreckage.
evp	wretched	adjective	1	C2	very unhappy or ill	I'd been feeling wretched all day so I went to bed early.	As a result, some people will realize they were unable to achieve their ends when they were younger and will feel wretched.
evp	wretched	adjective	2	C2	very bad or of poor quality	The refugees were living in wretched conditions.	Because working leads to self-esteem, that is most vital for people, especially when they are in wretched conditions.
evp	wrinkle	noun	1	C2	a small line on your face that you get when you grow old	This cream reduces the appearance of wrinkles.	And so time goes by and old age is closing in] One morning you notice the wrinkles around your eyes and the gray hair that doesn't keep any of the old color.
evp	wrinkled	adjective	1	C2	with a lot of wrinkles	a wrinkled face	To this day, and for many years to come, this piece of music brings back the dirty wrinkled face of the loneliest person I've ever known.
evp	wrist	noun	1	B2	the part of the body between the hand and the arm	I sprained my wrist playing squash.	I fell o] some stairs and hurt my wrist.
evp	write	verb	1	A1	to produce letters, words or numbers on a surface or computer	Write your name at the top of the page.	Ev[e]ry lesson I read and write loads of sentences.
evp	write	verb	2	A2	to send a letter or email to someone, giving them information or expressing your thoughts or feelings	James hasn't written to me recently.	I can write my penfriend a letter twice a week.
evp	write	verb	3	B1	to create a book, story, article, etc. or a piece of music	He's writing a book on Colombia.	Stephen King wrote this book.
evp	writer	noun	1	B1	a person who writes books or articles to be published	a travel/sports/fiction/crime writer	The last book I read was a true story written by a young South-American writer.
evp	writing	noun	1	A1	the skill or activity of producing words on a surface	Teachers focus on speaking and writing in the afternoon classes.	[I]n my lessons I learn reading, writing and English grammar.
evp	writing	noun	2	A2	something that has been written or printed	The writing on the label was too small to read.	
evp	writing	noun	3	B1	the way that someone writes	Do you recognize the writing on the envelope?	
evp	writing	noun	4	B2	the activity of creating pieces of written work, such as books, stories, poems, etc., or the written work of one person or a group of people	I took a course in creative writing.	Black humor is a distinguishable feature of his writing.
evp	writing	noun	5	B2	An agreement that is in writing is official and is proof of that agreement.	Please confirm your reservation in writing.	I am telling you in writing that I would like to help you.
evp	written	adjective	1	B1	expressed in writing, or involving writing	written instructions	I would like you to tell me what subject you're teaching tomorrow and the pages of the homework, so I can do the written test in the next class.
evp	wrong	adjective	1	A1	not correct	Three of your answers were wrong.	We listen to a tape sometimes, and mark wrong letters.
evp	wrong	adjective	2	A2	to think or say something that is not correct	I was wrong about the time - the store closed at 7, not 8.	If I'm not wrong, it is in the living room.
evp	wrong	adjective	3	B1	to produce an answer or result that is not correct, or to say or write something that is not correct	I got most of the answers wrong.	
evp	wrong	adjective	4	B1	If something is wrong, there is a problem.	You've been quiet all evening. Is there anything wrong?	I didn't know him, so I thought that there was something wrong.
evp	wrong	adjective	5	B2	not considered morally acceptable by most people	Children should be taught that violence is wrong.	To sum up, I think it is wrong to keep animals in zoos.
evp	wrong	adjective	6	C1	not suitable or correct, or not as it should be	She's the wrong person for the job.	Personally I prefer to think that you gave the job to the wrong person.
evp	wrong	adjective	7	C2	to start a relationship or activity badly	He got off on the wrong foot with my parents by arriving late.	One of the greatest pleasures of reading "The Remains of the Day" would be to see the gradual development of the relationship between Stevens and Miss Kenton. From the beginning, they get off on the wrong foot.
evp	wrong	adverb	1	A2	in a way that is not correct	You spelled my name wrong.	
evp	wrong	adverb	2	B1	to develop problems	Something's gone wrong with my computer.	Despite all that went wrong, there was something I really enjoyed. It was visiting the Diamond Cave.
evp	wrong	adverb	3	C2	used when you do not want someone to think that you do not like someone or something	Don't get me wrong, I like her, but she can be very annoying.	Don't get me wrong, I love my aunts, I really do, but not as houseguests.
evp	wrongly	adverb	1	B2	not correctly	It has been said - wrongly - that Americans hate government.	Equally, the point about 'staying' is erroneous: we stayed at Riverside Hotel instead of Hotel Astrid, which closed last year, and Hotel Royal was wrongly described as having 'special rates' for students.
evp	wrongly	adverb	2	C1	accused or punished unfairly or illegally	She was wrongly convicted of smuggling.	You have also wrongly accused the organizers of spending too much money on organizing the event.
evp	xenophobia	noun	1	C2	extreme dislike or fear of people from other countries	They accused her of xenophobia.	This creates a climate of social tension. The number of poor people increase while the rich become richer and the middle-class tends to disappear; xenophobia and other cultural 'harassment' become popular, accompanied by more violence and increasing crime rates.
evp	X-ray	noun	1	B2	a photograph that shows the inside of your body	They took an X-ray of his leg.	I was with my last patient trying to operate on his damaged tooth when I realized the X-Ray was on the wrong side and that I wasn't working on the damaged tooth.
evp	yacht	noun	1	B2	a boat with sails and sometimes an engine, used for either racing or traveling on for pleasure	a luxury yacht	The class of boat that best fits my physical condition is the one called [S]nipe, that seems to be available at your yacht club.
evp	yard	noun	1	A2	a small area of land next to a house that is usually covered with grass and may have a fence around it	We have an oak tree in our back/front yard.	Can you check in the yard of your house under the chair.
evp	yard	noun	2	B1	a unit of measurement equal to three feet or approximately 91.4 centimetres	The garden is about 100 yards long.	I'm not a fitness maniac and I don't go to a shop which is 50 yards away from my house just to buy a newspaper, but if you go to school, why not go by bike[?]
evp	yawn	verb	1	B2	to take a deep breath with your mouth wide open, because you are tired or bored	I can't stop yawning - I must be tired.	I am of the opinion that the morning English lessons with our teacher John are worth filming and showing for many reasons. Above all, they are enjoyable and interesting. All of us participate effectively. Nobody is yawning or feeling bored.
evp	year	noun	1	A1	a period of twelve months, especially from January 1st to December 31st	Elaine worked in Italy for two years.	She came from Pakistan two years ago.
evp	year	noun	2	A1	to be a particular age	Her son is six years old.	He is 53 years old and he lives in Madeira.
evp	year	noun	3	A2	the part of the year, in a school or university, during which courses are taught	the school/academic year	The class is every Friday until the end of the school year.
evp	year	noun	4	B1	for a long time	Hannah and I have been friends for years.	I had not seen him for years.
evp	yell	verb	1	B2	to shout something very loudly	Our neighbors were yelling at each other this morning.	"Cut," yelled the director.
evp	yell	noun	1	B2	a loud shout	Suddenly there was a loud yell from the bathroom.	Suddenly a big yell came out of my throat.
evp	yellow	adjective	1	A1	being the same color as a lemon or the sun	a bright yellow T-shirt	My friends gave me a new ring and my grandparents gave me some beautiful pink and yellow flowers.
evp	yellow	noun	1	A2	a yellow color	You should wear more yellow - it looks good on you.	I wanna paint the room in blue and yellow.
evp	yes	adverb	1	A1	used to agree with something, or to give a positive answer	"Would you like a glass of wine?" "Yes, please."	Yes, I can come tomorrow for dinner.
evp	yes	adverb	2	A1	used to show that you are listening to someone, or that you are ready to listen and to give them an answer or information	"Dad." "Yes, what do you want, honey?"	
evp	yes	adverb	3	A2	used when you are disagreeing with a negative statement	"I'm not a very good cook, though." "Yes, you are - you make wonderful food!"	
evp	yesterday	adverb	1	A1	on the day before today	He called yesterday while you were out.	I got your letter yesterday.
evp	yet	adverb	1	A2	up until now	I haven't spoken to her yet.	I haven't seen this film yet.
evp	yet	adverb	2	A2	now or as early as this time	I don't want to go home yet.	I don't need it yet because my parents gave me a new computer for my birthday.
evp	yet	adverb	3	B2	the best or worst, etc. until now	Of all the songs I've heard tonight, that's the best yet.	And that was my worst experience yet.
evp	yet	adverb	4	C1	again after something has happened or been done many times before	The bus was late yet again.	It's another new year and yet again the early year quietness is present... until I got these two games, Quake 3 Arena (Q3A for short) and Unreal To[u]rnament (UT for short).
evp	yet	adverb	5	C1	from now and for a particular period of time in the future	She won't be back for a long time yet.	It's a fact that everybody knows that living in Poland is not easy now and it won't be for a long time yet.
evp	yet	adverb	6	C1	until and including this time	I haven't heard as yet if their flight has arrived.	I would like to do something about it, but as I can't imagine building anything near my beautiful house (because I'm afraid it would destroy its wonderful harmony), I have no idea as yet how to solve this problem.
evp	yet	adverb	7	C2	used to show that you are surprised or annoyed that something is being repeated or increased	He's given us yet more work to do.	The awe-inspiring view of the park must not be destroyed for yet another building.
evp	yet	adverb	8	C2	used to say there is still a possibility that something will happen	He may win yet.	Weakened, the tunnel could yet crumble and fall at any time.
evp	yet	adverb	9	C2	to not have done something that was expected before this time	They have yet to make a decision.	But she had yet to inform her fiancé.
evp	yield	verb	1	C1	to stop in order to allow people or other vehicles to go past before you drive on or drive into another street	Cars must yield to pedestrians in the crosswalk.	There are special traffic lights which prefer trams if they approach a certain switch, so cars have to yield then.
evp	yield	verb	2	C2	to produce or provide something	to yield a profit	It is to be hoped that my suggestion will be implemented and will yield immediate results.
evp	yoga	noun	1	B1	a set of exercises for the mind and body, based on the Hindu religion	She does yoga three times a week.	We do yoga in a heated room so we sweat a lot.
evp	yogurt	noun	1	A2	a slightly sour, thick liquid made from milk with bacteria added to it, sometimes sweetened and with a fruit flavor added, and sometimes eaten plain	natural/plain yogurt	Every day they eat milk, cheese, yogurt, and vegetables.
evp	young	adjective	1	A1	having lived or existed for only a short time and not old	young people/adults/children	All young people who play football want go there in the future.
evp	young	noun	1	B2	young people generally	His political ideas appeal to the young.	In general, kids and teenagers are, at home, allowed to do almost anything they want, which sometimes puts parents in a very difficult position when trying to e]stablis rules in order to limit the freedom of the young.
evp	youngster	noun	1	C1	a young person, especially an older child	He talked to the youngsters about the dangers of drugs.	Like many other nations worldwide, with mastering much more knowledge and skills of information technology than the elder group of people, it is not surprising that Chinese youngsters learn more than their previous generations did about what is happening around the world.
evp	youth	noun	1	B1	young people generally	the youth of today	Finally I decided to join a new youth club in my town.
evp	youth	noun	2	B2	the period of time when someone is young	I was a fairly good football player in my youth.	I played several kinds of sports during my youth, but now I am not a member of any club.
evp	zebra	noun	1	B2	an African animal like a horse with black and white lines	We saw a zebra in the distance.	Otherwise there would be many children and grown-ups who had never seen an elephant, a tiger, a zebra etc.
evp	zero	noun	1	A2	the number 0	Five, four, three, two, one, zero.	Can you bring me my laptop, because I have to do some homework on it - if I don't do this I will get a zero.
evp	zero	noun	2	B1	the temperature that is 32 degrees lower than the temperature at which water freezes in degrees Fahrenheit, or the temperature at which water freezes in degrees centigrade	In the winter, the temperature can drop to 15 degrees below zero.	We have to learn that it is not natural for a lion to live in a country where, in winter, the temperature can fall below zero. (583941; First Certificate in English; Italy; B2 VANTAGE; 1993; Italian; Fail
evp	zipper	noun	1	B2	a thing for fastening clothes, bags, etc. consisting of two rows of very small parts that connect together	The jeans had two buttons and a zipper in front.	In conclusion, I believe that common clothes in the future will be overalls without buttons or zippers, that you easily slip into, which also are very comfortable.
evp	zone	noun	1	B1	an area where a particular thing happens, that is used for a particular purpose, or where there are particular rules	an earthquake zone	It is a very clean city with a lot of car-free zones.
evp	zoo	noun	1	A1	a place where wild animals are kept so that people can go and look at them	I love going to the zoo.	So I went to see the animals in the zoo, my daughter the ducks, and I enjoyed when I saw my daughter very happy playing with the ducks.
evp	zucchini	noun	1	B2	a long green vegetable that is white inside	We had grilled zucchini, peppers, and mushrooms with rice for dinner.	My favorite, it's one with the mushrooms and zucchini.
